
## WebAppSec WG

2020-05-19

**Attendees**:
* Sam Weiler, W3C
* Dan Veditz
* Artur Janc
* Wendy Seltzer, W3C
* Brad Lassey, Google
* Mike West
* Jun Kokatsu
* John Wilander, Apple WebKit
* Frederik Braun, Mozilla
* Carlos IL
* Ian Clelland
* Martin Meyer, Akamai
* Giorgio Maone


### Previous Meeting

https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/blob/master/meetings/2020/2020-04-21-minutes.md


## Minutes

[using zoom, not using WebEx]
https://mit.zoom.us/j/99375343999?pwd=V2dYbndiOVhuY3FaWXJQVGJGbFE5QT09

### Adopting `/.well-known/change-password` URL

mkwst: Would we adopt `.well-known/change-password` spec?  Objections?

dan: we like it.  

**[Resolved: Adopted, let's publish as a FPWD]**

### Agenda bashing

mkwst: thanks for showing up. the world is crazy and I appreciate you putting in the time to come to these calls.

...: I'm worried that these calls have turned into a Mike Monolog, and that doesn't seem useful or great for anyone[[citation needed]]. What do folks want to do with this call? But before that, are there any specific topics?

### Rename Feature Policy to Permissions Policy

Ian: Proposal at 
https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webappsec/2020May/0008.html.

...: some specs linking to it.  FP has been pared back a little; controls delegations between origins.  

[Github issue](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec-feature-policy/issues/359)

mkwst: explain split between feature policy and document policy?

Ian: Looking into using FP to explain other kinds of behavior, beyond the initial design. This introduced a lot of complexity, and made it difficult for other implementers. We talked about Document Policy at TPAC last year; aiming to reduce the complexity of FP by splitting some functionality out into this new policy. Different model: opt-in for nested document, rather than cascading by default.

...: Separate spec in the same repo. Split out from the FP spec, still work product of this group.

weiler: Can you take another pass at the explanation of the split between DP and FP?

Ian: Let's talk about what goes into FP vs what goes into DP? FP is primarily suited for features allowed in top-level by default, and generally restricted to third-parties. Mechanism of delegating trust down to nested contexts. In most cases, these tie directly to permissions, which the user can also revoke.

dveditz: This doesn't give any more power if they're cooperative, right?

Ian: Correct. This formalizes the collaboration with a declaration. There might be a few APIs where just having `postMessage()` might not be enough, but that's the general model. Document Policy's use case is features available in all contexts, which you might want to restrict. Either you want to restrict them for yourself by setting the header ,doesn't affect anyone else, just you. Or you restrict a frame via an attribute on an `<iframe>` tag. These controls might be unexpected for the framed site, so we advertise the policy when requesting the frame, and if it doesn't opt-in, we block the request. `document.write`, storage access, sandbox, etc. 

dveditz: If DP had existed in the past, some CSP features might have gone there instead of CSP.

Ian: Sure! It would be nice if we had had this kind of opt-in mechanism earlier. `sandbox` too.

mkwst: Is there any process we need to be able to change the name, and publishing Document Policy?

wseltzer: W3C staff can help with the rename, and republishing some already-published features as Document Policy is something we can do under IPR commitments.

mkwst: Great. Then it seems reasonable to push it into a incubating group to get IPR protection and then adopt it later


### IsLoggedIn

https://github.com/WebKit/explainers/tree/master/IsLoggedIn

wilander: Sorry for not having moved this to some W3C entity. That's our goal, but blocked on approvals internally. Aiming to do that. Don't want to have too much conversation and issues against the WebKit repository, but instead to move it somewhere where the IPR is clear.

...: I went through all the feedback we've received so far via the mailing list, TPAC, etc. Added that as a lengthy section at the end of the explainer

...: Our goal is to take it to the PrivacyCG and have the conversation there. Would aim for a WG after that if it goes that far.

...: Storage Access API, IsLoggedIn, First Party Sets seems like a powerful trifecta to resolve the issues associated with blocking third-parties by default. We need a place to talk about all those three things. Protect against misuse, while allowing powerful signin flows, etc.

...: Even if we end up in the PrivacyCG, we'd really appreciate feedback from folks in this group. Authentication expertise, etc.


### Policy Container

Jun: Issues filed against COOP regarding interaction with `blob:`. Similar issues with CSP and other policy frameworks.

...: Anything that's a "local scheme" (`data:`, `blob:`, `about:`, etc) needs to inherit a policy from somewhere: parent, navigation initiator, etc. Browsers aren't good at this today. They create a `blob:`, and try to take a policy from the navigation initiator, but sometimes that's difficult (consider copy/paste). This allows for bypasses of various policy frameworks.

...: https://github.com/whatwg/html/issues/4926 suggests a solution to this. Might be good to discuss here.

mkwst: talked with Anne at TPAC and this seems like a right solution. Not so much a question of design as having the folks to build this mechanism.

jun: I'm concerned with inheritance into local schemes and less concerned with the details of workers which doesn't happen so much in practice. Inheritance might be different for different features, but this would allow specs to clarify that.

mkwst: the goal would be to get away from inheritance for blob: and filesystem: urls entirely, so that if at creation time a blob: has a policy from creator "A" then if it's ever referenced again in the future it will have that same policy. I consider this as less important than other problems because an attacker already needs script access on the page. less important than opener policy, for example. But I would love to see this happen, I just haven't been able to prioritize this in my team.

jun: I do see where a website can create blob: urls, for example from an SVG image, which can contain script, which is then navigated to and is an XSS.

wilander: I recall seeing that this has been considered for the ongoing work for storage partitioning. What do we do about `blob:` URLs when double-keying state? (https://github.com/privacycg/storage-partitioning).


### 3P Cookie Blocking in Safari

wilander: In late-March, we announced full third-party cookie blocking in Safari. Reporting back to working group: got some reports when it was in beta and tech preview. Other issues are trickling in now that it's out with customers and getting more adoption. Trying to discuss bugs with folks reporting bugs: as users and developers,  they like that 3P cookies are going away. They've been considering an OAuth flow using URL parameters for quite some time, but they're not able to just flip a switch and get things running again.

...: There's a niche problem where third-parties aren't carrying authentication state, but configuration state: "Where should I go to authenticate the user?"

mkwst: SAML?

wilander: You can pick which federated authenticator you want to use, and some broker website magically knows where to take you. Without third-party state, it doesn't know, and can't take you there to complete authentication.

...: IsLoggedIn might need to deal with the cases in which two third-parties are involved.

### New specs and old specs.

wseltzer: For new specs: I've been excited to see activity in the PrivacyCG and WICG on various privacy/security specs. Web Advertising BG, talking about those same things. At some point, those will see multiple expressions of interest, and will look for homes. I don't want to prejudge those decisions, but I'd invite this group to think about new specs that might be coming in. There's plenty of overlap in participation between this group and those.

...: Also, there are things on our deliverables list that aren't seeing much update. Like MIX, which Mike still hasn't finished up even though he said he would in January.

...: 

mkwst: A number of specs in maintenance mode not being maintained. CSP, Secure Contexts, ... 
... are folks interested in picking up any of that work? Finding the time to drive these toward rec

dveditz: I can check with folks at Mozilla

weiler: ask them what's gotten in their way, what's blocking

### This call

mkwst: I've been liking the chatting on this call. For me, the main value is getting a group of people into virtual room with shared interest/expertise. 
... Web Security is increasingly important. Happy to see community, making real progress on real problems. 
... How can we do a better job soliciting inputs and conversation? How would people like to use this call? 
... Some groups use calls as status check-in, but not so interesting if nothing's changed
... Broad overarching topics
... Chromium's interests:  injection mitigation and isolation  -- coop coep. how to get those out the door and gate features
... what additional isolation parameters will we need to protect against side-channel attacks
... chromium experimenting with trusted types, scripting policy. 
... I'd like to hear from others in the community: what are your priorities, what tools are you missing? what are other browsers focused on and where can we do a better job collaborating? 
... what do others think? 

dveditz: people showing up to calls have been largely people involved with browsers; that makes it hard to hear what woudl be broadly useful to webapp developers

wilander: Without speaking for all of WebKit: for me, I care about being safe on the web. We had a period in which WebAppSec was pushing improvements forwards rapidly. CSP, SRI, MIX, etc. For me, the broader issue of safety branched out into privacy and anti-tracking 3-4 years ago. Folks I usually interact with in W3C seem to have felt the same way. Innovation and hard work went into some of those issues. I think that naturally slowed down the security aspect. We're not _done_ with web security, but there's so much to do in web privacy. Chrome folks have not sided with the rest with regard to tracking prevention. I think that bifurcation adds to less engagement in security stuff. "Are we on the same page here?" You can see it in the three things we talked about earlier: Storage Access API, First Party Sets, IsLoggedIn. If we're moving in the same direction with those, there's real potential for collaboration. If not, there's less interaction in WebAppSec. I think some of these things could be worked in here.

lassey: FPS is [waiting for interest on WICG](https://discourse.wicg.io/t/proposal-first-party-sets/3331).  If you're interested in talking about it, we'd appreciate a second there.

wilander: Talking about this group. Want to find a set of experts to talk about these problems. Those conversations need to happen, both on acalls like this, but also on GitHub.

### Agenda

* AOB?
  * https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webappsec/2020May/0001.html
  * https://wicg.github.io/change-password-url/
* `IsLoggedIn`
* Local scheme inheretence: CSP, referrer policy, etc.
  * https://github.com/whatwg/html/issues/4926
  * Policy container
* third party cookie blocking
* Calls.
* New Specs coming in
*


### Logistics

*   **IRC** : `irc.w3.org` / `#webappsec`
*   **Voice**: <https://www.w3.org/2011/webappsec/webex.html>

### Queue
* (feel free to jump in front)
* John W
* Jun
* Sam
