## WebAppSec WG

2020-07-21

**Attendees**:
* Camille Lamy (Google)
* Dan Veditz
* Dom Farolino
* Erik Anderson
* Frederik Braun
* Giorgio Maone
* John Wilander (Apple WebKit)
* Jun Kokatsu
* Kaustubha Govind (Google)
* Martin Meyer (Akamai)
* Maud Nalpas, observing (Google)
* Mike West
* Mingzhe Li (Akamai) 
* Sam Weiler (W3C/MIT)
* Wendy Seltzer (W3C)

### Previous Meeting

https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/blob/master/meetings/2020/2020-05-19-minutes.md

## Minutes

### Referrer Policy

[Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1wwT30FR8dKztHTmOX0aK3FnRmf6IbQNjX2fPiIn03yw/edit)

Dom: Spec is relatively stable. Last mechanical change was to clarify correctness for same-origin-ness. Usually compare request URL with the "request's client's origin", but RP introduced "referrer URL", which was ambigious. These origins are almost always the same, but some cases around CSS and JS modules can cause differences.

...: [Slides explaining module script example](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1wwT30FR8dKztHTmOX0aK3FnRmf6IbQNjX2fPiIn03yw/edit#slide=id.p
)

...: Decided to consider "same-/cross-origin-ness" based on the referrer URL, as that resolves things reasonably for modules.

...: Other editorial changes were minor. There's some work we'd like to do in the future, though:

...: Should the RP spec address other specs that override the referrer URL? Modules do this, might require more support.

...: A few policy changes might be reasonable:
     
     1.  Alias `unsafe-url` to `no-referrer-when-downgrade`.
     2. Change the default policy from `no-referrer-when-downgrade` to something more like `strict-origin-when-cross-origin`. 
     3. PrivacyCG proposal to cap referrers.
     
Kaustubah: Opened a [TAG review for this](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/538). Referrer Trimming. Mozilla wrote up a nice summary of different browsers' approach to referrers. Seems to be agreement on `strict-origin-when-cross-origin`, with a number of tweaks in different browsers.

...: Wanted to discuss going beyond those defaults: should we go further, capping referrer information entirely. [LINK GOES HERE].

Dom: WPT. Looking reasonably good with Chrome, Edge, and Firefox. Bugs filed against WebKit. Worst area here is around workers. Some CSS issues around SVG tests landed fairly recently by FF. FF passes those, don't really interop. We should investigate to see if the right bugs have been filed and whether the work is happening.

DVeditz: I briefly looked at the test errors and saw the same syntax/runtime error over and over. The failures, or a lot of them, could be bad tests rather than spec incompatibilities.

Dom: moving to Rec. Changing the default at least to origin-only when cross-origin. Gathering ideas from PrivacyCG regarding capping changes. Resolving the WPT errors -- need to investigate and file bugs. 

Kaustubha: Question we've been asking about use cases. What are developers using referrers for today? Edge examples, seemed that they should have worked with just origin. We hear about brand safety: say you're an airline wanting to run ads on news sites, but not next to articles about plane crashes. or subreddits. Where origin might not be enough. Brand safety might require the full URL. 

John Wilander: We are shipping in Safari downgrades to origin of cross-site referrers, can't be overriden. Seen relatively little breakage; haven't seen a handful of bugs. All on document.referrer, scripts, when not seeing the path does the wrong thing. 

Kaustubha: clearly other channels, e.g. link decoration or post arguments. So we're also thinking about what's the threat model: is it we don't want identifying info passed along? JS APIs could clearly get location, would capping only lead to devs finding other ways to get the info. Looking for more holistic approach. 

Wilander: agree this isn't a hard security/privacy boundary. Stopping accidental cross-site leakage. Similar to same-site: lax. 

Kaustubha: default vs capping situation?

Wilander: I'd like default, just send origin. or don't send referrer.

Kaustubha: likely other impacts such as analytics, that aren't user-visible. server-side impact. We're trying to understand the use cases. 

Wilander: In general, starting from use case and thinking about ways to solve that problem, in privacy-preserving way. There's no 1:1 between referrers and brand-safety. Try to isolate that issue and discuss it. 

Kaustubha: Agree, in the privacy sandbox model. We want to hear use cases. 

Dom: Sounds as though we're ok with moving the default policy to origin, except in downgrade where we strip completely. Continue discussion in PrivacyCG. 

DVeditz: were the worker tests rewritten to reflect whose referrerer../ or were the failures preexisting?

Dom: I think the failures were preexisting

DVeditz: second comment, more for PrivacyCG. Lots of us are concerned about ad tracking, and say "do contextual ads instead," but shorter referrers lessen the context. 

Jun: it's just a default. If someone wants to override, can. Think we shouldn't make referrer policy not overrideable, as that will just lead to other errors.

Dom: If I understand Wilander, sounds as though Safari won't let you override. For the PrivacyCG discussion, should we have a strict ceiling beyond which you can't override?

Wilander: When we change defaults and then allow override, do we communicate busywork to devs? just another thing to add? 

Kaustubha: re contextual ads, point to TURTLEDOVE in the privacy sandbox: two distinct requests, one that knows context, the other that knows the user's interest group. We've been thinking, it's ok to have context without identity. 

Jun: We need to figure out whether referrer needs to be strict boundary, like same-origin.

### COOP Reporting

Camille: Website can set COOP, and then sever relationship with other top-level pages that aren't same-origin. An opener can no longer access origins. Isolation. Browser has more freedom where to put the page, e.g. in a new process. Spectre mitigation. But likely to cause breakage on existing app deployments. So report-only mode. 
... We want to provide reporting policy, but it's complicated because two different docs from distinct origins. Risk exposing data cross-origin if done wrong. 

[Explainer](https://github.com/camillelamy/explainers/blob/master/coop_reporting.md)

Camille: reviewing explainer. We're still in discussion with Moz, regarding what is safe to include in a report. Types of reports: navigating in a tab, browsing context swap. Second, blocked accesses to other windows, detect which ones would block if we enforced COOP. Requires lots of bookkeeping and challenging to implement. Lots of dummy objects you create only to report that you tried to access them and failed. Detection. 
... Then, what can you include in reports. For report to be useful, you need an idea of other document involved. Still discussing. Navigate to: Using URL is only fine if you're same-origin to it. Otherwise, can only safely report the referrer of the navigation. Navigate away... (see explainer)

Camille: Report, someone tried to access something on your site. 

... Implementations. COOP shipped in Chrome 83; in Firefox. We're hopeful that Reporting Policy can ship in chrome 86. 

Jun: Does destination get the origin URL, e.g. in case of opening new window cross-origin? Do you just say "cross-origin window opened" or give origin info?

Camille: depends, does the first page enable reporting? then it will get a report that when open window, there was a browsing context switch, and then that @@ would be blocked due to COOP. If server redirect, you'd just get intial URL. Opened window will get referrer. 

### Future Topics

John Wilander: Formalizing logins on the web. `IsLoggedIn` sits in the PrivacyCG, multi-vendor interest. HTTP State Tokens. Interesting characterists. Would like to see if it's a good place to talk about that. WebID: Mentioned by some folks at Google on some threads. Sounds related.

...: Want to invite folks from PrivacyCG and WebAppSec to discuss these topics, find dependencies, etc. 

Mike: Reasonable to rethink our authentication primitives, as those are getting old. This group is a good place for those conversations. Shall we discuss next call? Prep beforehand to help us focus the conversation. Start some email threads, point to relevant github issues. 
... Plenty of issues for us to review in the next month or so. 

... AOB? 

### Agenda

* Referrer Policy
  * Dominic Farolino will update us on the current status of the spec, and what's left.
  * Default policy values (https://github.com/w3c/webappsec-referrer-policy/pull/125)
  * Potential ceilings or floors we might want to create in the future (see the PrivacyCG's "Referrer Trimming" proposal, along with the open PRs against referrer policy)
* [COOP Reporting](https://github.com/camillelamy/explainers/blob/master/coop_reporting.md)
  * Explainer: https://github.com/camillelamy/explainers/blob/master/coop_reporting.md
  * Implementation Status
  * Open questions.
* Future Topics
  * [Conversations around formalizing logins and login state](https://github.com/privacycg/proposals/issues/6#issuecomment-654501839): `IsLoggedIn`, Web ID, and HTTP State Tokens.
