## WebAppSec WG

2020-09-15

### Attendees
* Mike West
* Jun Kokatsu
* Sam Weiler
* Giorgio Maone
* Dan Veditz
* Manuel Sousa
* Emily Stark
* Artur Janc
* Ian Clelland
* Carlos IL
* Jeff Hodges
* Yifan Luo
* Bil Corry
* Dylan Cutler
* Kaustubha Govind
* Gerhard Oosthuizen
* John Wilander
* Mingzhe Li
* Wendy Seltzer

### Previous Meeting

https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/blob/master/meetings/2020/2020-08-14-minutes.md

### Logistics

* <https://mit.zoom.us/join>
* Meeting ID: 993 7534 3999
* Password: w3c
* US : +1 646 558 8656 or +1 669 900 6833
* International Numbers: https://mit.zoom.us/u/aezpAicYyd

## [CORS-RFC1918](https://wicg.github.io/cors-rfc1918)

* Punted to the next call, Titouan fell ill.

mkwst: (condensed) implementatation in Chrome behind a flag, secure context restriction is running into real-world problems (e.g. Plex) but looking forward to seeing this ship

## ["Oh, the places you'll go!"](https://secweb.work/papers/janc2020places.pdf)

* Artur will say some things. They will be interesting./
Prior art: https://www.ieee-security.org/TC/W2SP/2010/papers/p11.pdf

Artur: Before the details, note that Jeff Hodges wrote a relevant paper a decade ago (<https://www.ieee-security.org/TC/W2SP/2010/papers/p11.pdf>). I apparently internalized it, and wrote a similar thing. We know that there are unsafe things on the web platform. The paper walks through a few dozen. `document.domain` relaxes the same-origin policy. DOM clobbering can create global properties on `window`. Dangling markup attacks: look at the web as an application platform, these all allow some kinds of attacks.

...: Can we expose some toggles that would allow developers to disable these bad things either in their document or for a whole origin?

...: Ideally, we would just remove them entirely, but that's difficult to do in a web-compatible way. The next-best thing is to allow developers to disable a specific thing for their own application. This removes the behavior for you, preventing exploitation of a possible bug, or removing the bug in the first place.

...: There are many of these things we want to deprecate. 4.2.1 suggests a (hopefully) practical way of building these toggles. Specifically, it relies on Document Policy (which arose from the split of Feature Policy into Permissions Policy and Document Policy). It's a policy for a document, allowing developers to set various toggles. Performance related, security related, per-document flags. This is one part of the story.

...: Second part: it's difficult for developers to block the use of certain features in their applications if they don't know whether blocking that feature will break their applications. We have a Reporting API that is, as far as I know, already integrated with Document Policy (spec indicates that integration is in the works). Before flipping the toggle to enforce a change, we could report places that could break.

...: With this mechanism, it seems that we could be able to disable legacy badness. The paper has 8-9 examples of features that would be amenable to this approach. Document/origin-level opt-outs.

Sam: How can we make it palatable to deprecate things outright? [implicit Q from queue, not actually asked]

Artur: Paper talks about a spectrum. On one end we have the default-disabling of features in browsers. Doing this with Flash, SameSite, HTTP to some extent. Some very positive changes have been possible without developer opt-in. I think the way it works is that features move on that spectrum from being opt-out to being disabled by default only as usage of the feature declines. Killing flash required better alternatives.

Sam: What could we do, in more depth? Apple is killing 64-bit apps. Warns that X will break in a release or two. People who've written the apps won't be happy, will get pressure from users. Flag days can be helpful. Browsers doing that on the same day.

Artur: I'd refer you to a presentation Mike gave at the same workshop. Interesting to me, not in Chrome, talking about how it's possible to coordinate platform-level, non-opt-in deprecations.  https://speakerdeck.com/mikewest/the-web-we-can-ship

mkwst: Notes that for big high-profile deprecations, it is possible to coord and stage it and pull it off, eg Flash and TLS < 1.2.  It is helpful to give IT depts deadlines, but they all want opt-outs, so various security knobs are turned off for the public open web today (eg in Chrome), but left on in enterprises. Have a bunch of flags in Chrome that are for enterprises (but default off for consumer case): there are _some_ deprecations that are worth subjecting open web users & developers to pain. but not all the ones in Artur's paper are worth that. eg, document.domain, affects 1 out of every 200 page views. can't just break all those views, we think.  

Sam: wonders what/how we can be more bold and break things?

mkwst: that's easier to say if you aren't accountable to users....


dveditz: People love that sites from the 90's can still work.

mkwst: does feel the Web MUST evolve, and have to prune as we go along, but can't chop off just any branch, eg the one holding up the treehouse...

JohnW: Responding to Sam, then a question for Artur. We've had some conversations among devrel folks around these kinds of deprecations. 1) Warn developers. Console warnings, devtools. Enhancing that by enabling "developer mode" or looking in devtools, we could prompt, not warn. "You're using X, and we're going to remove it!" 2) Take that further, warn users. "This site will break in X months because the developer is using X." In hope of users pushing on site owners, and site owners using their own site, getting the message. 3) Chrome's usage of partial rollouts: it's already a mechanism for partially breaking the web. Maybe worse, only broken for half the users? But certainly used. 4) Shared messaging. We should be doing this more. Say the same thing at the same time. Can create news. 5) HTTPS: we gate certain new functionality on developers' opt-in. They forsake old, bad functionality in order to get new hotness.

...: WebKit has sometimes been reluctant to bundle things, using one thing as an excuse to push the web in one direction or another. Can be something to use if it's blocking us from something like site isolation.

...: Artur, for opting-in a whole origin, could that be turned into a storage mechanism? Do you have thoughts?

Artur: Good question. No easy answer. The most important thing is a document-level switch that doesn't imply any storage.

JohnW: Similar to CSP, right?

Artur: The problem with that model is that setting a header on every response from their origin is error-prone. Miss certain classes of documents. Coverage is hard. It's nice-to-have to do something in the browser, similar to Origin Policy/Manifests. Apply to all responses. Persistence issue, tracking. This is something I would like to have. Would want to decouple it from the first part of the question.

mkwst: [Origin Policy and CSP can be used as storage]

Jun: Is Document Policy enough for all the behaviors? Or does something need Permission Policy?
  
Artur: I was thinking about DP because we cannot have this inherit across origin, which DP doesn't. Ian?

Ian: Processing model for Document Policy. Very much like CSP. Not origin-scoped. Document-scoped. The policy affects that one document. There is a CSPEE-like mechanism in the spec. Negotiation for things in frames. You specify a required policy. We unload the document if it doesn't conform. That said, we haven't shipped that in Chrome yet. Not sure the negotiation mechanism has seen enough discussion, would love more feedback on that.

...: Difference to Permission Policy. PP inherits into subframes. Inherits cross-origin. Delegate permission down to frames. I haven't looked at all the features in the paper, but I don't think they're that. These are toggles that you disable in your own document.

Jun: `document.domain` goes cross-document. Wonder if that can be done with Document Policy. One document opts-out. Another same-domain document wants to access. Does that work?

mkwst: I think DP would prevent setting `document.domain` in the first document, which would prevent access. Reporting is hard. Would want to learn from COOP reporting, which is similar to `document.domain`'s needs.

dveditz: We're changing the default behavior of cookies. It's taken a while to actually ship this. We all (here) agree it would be good to do, but it takes a while to ship.

artur: will not have consensus among browser vendors or engineers wrt turning off some features, eg dom clobbering -- it is not inherently bad, has some positive uses.  specific individual behaviors that are ? at platform level, it is hard to uniformly disable them.

Jun: How will history API be disabled in a document with cross-origin frames that influence history:?

Artur: I have a simple answer: idunno. Haven't thought through specific opt-outs to that extent. This is an enumeration of problematic behaviors. You may be hinting that some will be impossible/difficult because of interaction model. Maybe some aren't tractable.

mkwst: would like to find how to followup on suggestions JohnW made earlier. you have some ideas wrt how to disable things by default and msg to different user groups -- are you willing to write up more on this topic?

JohnW: one item is having a way to force devs to upgrade to new API, eg how we have in native app APIs/SDKs

JohnW: can bring it up, to see if webkit will be willing to attack some specific patterns, and if so then have a side meeting during TPAC to discuss, please remind me :)

mkwst: dveditz will be happy to ping you!

## TPAC

Sam: 5 slots a day in the breakout week (October 26th-30th). 2 weeks prior is "designated joint meetings" (14-18 Oct). Otherwise we're on our own.

wseltzer: TPAC is what we make of it. If you want to hold a meeting and call it TPAC, great. Breakout sessions are exciting. Privacy/security track last year was great. Would be great to have ideas and proposal this year as well. [TPAC page](https://www.w3.org/2020/10/TPAC/group-schedule.html)

Sam: October 26th - 30th. (breakout week)

†* What is it, exactly, that we want to do?

mkwst: topics of interest for breakouts: Deprecations, what and how? Chromium team's interests include isolation and injection. Artur's team might offer case studies: fetch-metadata, trusted types, strict CSP. Making those tools easier for developers to use. Probably things we could talk about regarding Permissions, document policy, as regards controlling page privileges. Permissions model differences, chromium re delegation, other models. I'll talk with Dan about how we might schedule to cover APAC, EMEA, Americas timezones. If you have suggestions for topics, please raise issues on github, and offer thumbs up/down, commentary. I'll start an issue, invite comment, and let's turn that into a set of breakout proposals. 

mkwst: Any other interests in organizing meetings/breakouts?

## [HTTP State Tokens](https://mikewest.github.io/http-state-tokens/draft-west-http-state-tokens.html)

* Not much has changed; we can chat about this if we have time today.

mkwst: still want to talk about this, but not much has yet happened. I'd like these to be a thing. Need feedback from others who are excited about it. 

