# WebAppSec WG: 2020-01-21

_Tuesday, January 21th: 19:00 UTC (11:00 California, 14:00 Boston, 19:00 London, 20:00 Berlin)._

* Voice: https://www.w3.org/2011/webappsec/webex.html
* Minutes: https://cryptpad.w3ctag.org/code/#/2/code/edit/N3kNngiyXXg0oek8X17F2kcA/

Attendees: dveditz, estark, ckerschb, terri, gmaone, wseltzer, artur

## Minutes

### Agenda Bashing

mkwst: First time we've talked since last decade -- welcome! Agenda is light for today, do folks on the call have additional topics they'd like to bring up.

[crickets]

### Fetch Metadata

mkwst: short update from last call: Chrome will be shipping a complete implementation of the spec in m80 (early February). Google security team have done some experiments and are happy with the results.

artur: We are enforcing some security restrictions in one application (Contacts) for external users. No breakage seen rejecting unexpected cross-site requests. It's nice that we can know what kinds of breakage would happen because it all happens server-side. In a nutshell, things work.

mkwst: what are next steps? we seem to have consensus to move the spec to CR as-is, with Fetch/HTML needing to change to call into the spec. Will send an official CFC to the list to move this to CR. There was a sub-thread on that discussion about many things we'd like to do that have dependencies on HTML/Fetch concepts and implementations. At the normative phase it's not clear we've found the right point of division, whether specs are understandable stand-alone for users of the feature as well as implementors who have to deal with normative bits spread across several specs.

Terri: Been a long time since I talked with developers about this, but basically none of them get their information from the spec. They get information from other sources. Might not matter. :) (This could mean there's no point in fixing spec for them, or that we should do a better job of communicating to them so they don't have to go elsewhere.)

mkwst: makes sense. maybe that means we should just make specs that are easiest for implementors.

### CSP v. Next

mkwst: this was a TPAC topic -- should we split CSP into smaller bits? I wrote up a [doc on "Scripting Policy"](https://mikewest.github.io/csp-next/scripting-policy.html) that take the parts of CSP related to script execution, wrapped into a form I hope is easier for web devs to understand and use safely. Scripting policy tries to learn from Google security's "strict CSP" and make something like that easy to express. There are a lot of directions this could take (one of them being this isn't worth doing: CSP exists) but I'm convincing myself that's not the case and would like feedback from the group about it.

...: there's a thread linked to in the agenda, and another thread about the "confinement" portion of CSP that scripting policy completely ignores but which are used by many companies on their sites. Would be valuable to get feedback from companies using CSP in this way for what they get out of this and what problems they run into.

  * [Scripting Policy sketch](https://mikewest.github.io/csp-next/scripting-policy.html) ([thread](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webappsec/2020Jan/0002.html))
  * Interest in confinement? ([thread](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webappsec/2020Jan/0006.html))

artur: Is Origin Policy an interesting way to deliver confinement rules? As opposed to a header? Could be delivered for a specific response as well, but lots of sites seem to use the same confinement logic for each page, and OP might be a better delivery mechanism. If we do, would that model offer us anything that headers would not? Policies could be more verbose, more distinction between Scripting Policy and the confinement work.

mkwst: I do think origin policy is a good mechanism for these types of headers that are part of a site-wide rule but are currently delivered in per-page headers. Domenic is actively working on this spec again, it's a good time to give feedback on that specification (https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/127). It seems like an important primitive to me.

wseltzer: Meta comment: if there are places that we (w3C) could be doing outreach, including through developer relations channels, to bring more of the users of security technologies to give feedback on how these changes would be useful, we'd be interested in that conversation.

terri: I have a feeling that this would be very useful for Intel. We're often producing reference-style code, but not deploying it. Testing the headers in production is not something we can do for the end user. Origin Policy might make it easier for us to give better advice to users.


### [COOP](https://gist.github.com/annevk/6f2dd8c79c77123f39797f6bdac43f3e) / [COEP](https://mikewest.github.io/corpp/)

mkwst: I think we're pretty close to done with a design. by "we" I mean folks at Google and Mozilla who have been collaborating heavily on these specs. Chrome should have a complete implementation by mid-March, described at the two links in the agenda. The reporting node for COEP should be straightforward; and reporting for COOP might be more open to discussion. Hard to describe in a call, drawing diagrams in your head. Please take a look at the COOP gist AnneVK has put together, and another doc from @@ on my team that I'll add later. Both Mozilla and Google think these mechanisms will be essential to prevent attacks like Spectre. I believe Mozilla will ship SharedArrayBuffer at the same time and only allow them to be used if COOP/COEP is used. Chrome has already shipped SAB but plans to pull it back so it can only be transferred when those are enabled.

...: if you're a company involved in shipping a lot of data cross-origin please talk to your development team about the COOP policy they'll need to set up in order to be embeddable in a cross-site context. For this to work we'll need CDNs and other providers of data to opt in, either using CORS or through COOP.

### Trusted Types (https://github.com/w3c/webappsec-trusted-types/issues/248)

mkwst: We think we have a mechanism that will solve the last problem that was raised (when the default policy will be executed). The initial solution wasn't going to work, but a solution that reaches down into the binding layer shows promise. We're pretty excited about the Trusted Types mechanism and want to get this out. Additional eyes on the spec are appreciated.

### WebAdv Business Group

wseltzer: Brief advertisement (ha!). Place where new work might originate. BG is gathering use cases, not spec development per se, around improving opportunities for publishers to monetize their apps and content without individually invasive tracking. As 3P cookies become less available, what can we all together build as a replacement that enables advertisers to measure performance and do some sort of targeting without tracking individuals and bogging down the performance of websites. There are various ideas listed in the repository, some in WICG, some proposed to come here to WebAppSec. Many ideas being discussed, at some point in the future, folks will likely dispatch those ideas to WGs/CGs to work them into specs for implementation and adoption.

...: Goals include doing privacy well, effectively and securely. Some of those pieces may come here.

...: Also note that the [Privacy Community Group](https://github.com/privacycg) was just established as a new spot for incubation of privacy features and APIs. I hope that too will possibly input to conversation here and elsewhere.

### Agenda bashing redux

mkwst: we've covered the primary agenda, is there anything else to add?

wseltzer: how can I help with the MIX CR->PR transition? (while regretting that I can't add hours to the day/week/month)

mkwst: I need to go through the existing bugs and make sure the closed ones are really closed, and that the open ones either don't matter or make the necessary updates. I do intend to get to that this week it just hasn't happened yet.

...: Emily, anything you'd like to note about MIX2 or MIXed content generally?

estark: we are shipping audio/video auto-upgrading in m80, stable early Feb. Currently on track. Had planned to auto-upgrade images in m81 but we're doing more analysis. was looking like 0.5% of page loads would need it which is quite high so we may need to delay.

### Referrer-policy

mkwst: repeat from last call -- browsers are updating how they do referrers. Chrome is experimenting with truncating the default `Referer:` (just sending the `Origin`). Probably time to just kill the referrer header when sent over insecure HTTP. Might break stuff but there are mitigations that, for example, Brave is doing. This is a vaguely unmaintained spec.

...: Trying to refine how and when we can ask users about permissions. I've linked to a blog post that explains changes Chrome is experimenting with. Last month I linked to a blog about changes Mozilla is doing. This group is a good place to talk about this since we're officially responsible for the permission spec (whether that's actually true or not).

...: There's a specific SRI proposal to do in-line script and style blocks. Add an integrity attribute and check the content. This is more work for HTML than for SRI, but does allow us to use hashes in CSP for inline content. Linked to a github issue -- if you like this change please add your support there.

...: linked to a thread about payment requests.


### `import` and `import()` and CSP and `'strict-dynamic'`

dveditz: Issue with `import` and `import()` in CSP. Syntactically, there's no way to apply a nonce to the `import` statement. It seems like there's a path forward for `import()` insofar as we could add arguments. [GitHub thread: csp issue 243](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec-csp/issues/243)

mkwst: could imagine something like ImportMaps that might work for import statements but it would be pretty complicated.

artur: We've been thinking about this, but haven't found a nice solution. I'm personally a fan of using Trusted Types to solve this problem, it's really what that mechanism was meant for. Thse mechanisms all happen at runtime, and are amenable to being refactored into using Trusted Types; browsers could allow developers to configure their applications to require Trusted Types, and it would fit pretty well.

...: I'm less excited about mechanisms that require developers to pass nonces around. Assume we had an `eval()` or `import()` that required a nonce. If an application uses that mechanism, it will need to copy around a nonce from somewhere on the page and use it. That doesn't get you any security. If you have an injection into the function, then you'll be blessing it with the nonce, and it'll execute. Trusted Types, on the other hand, would give you the opportunity to ensure that you build URLs in a way that's going to resist injection. Seems like a better solution.

### Queue

### Starting Agenda

* Fetch Metadata (https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-fetch-metadata/)
  * Blink will ship Sec-Fetch-Dest in M80.
  * Next steps: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webappsec/2020Jan/0004.html
    * https://github.com/whatwg/fetch/pull/993
    * https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/5203
    * https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webappsec/2020Jan/0009.html seems worthy of discussion.
* CSP v.Next
  * [Scripting Policy sketch](https://mikewest.github.io/csp-next/scripting-policy.html) ([thread](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webappsec/2020Jan/0002.html))
  * Interest in confinement? ([thread](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webappsec/2020Jan/0006.html))
* [COOP](https://gist.github.com/annevk/6f2dd8c79c77123f39797f6bdac43f3e) / [COEP](https://mikewest.github.io/corpp/)
* Trusted Types (https://github.com/w3c/webappsec-trusted-types/issues/248)
* [WebAdv Business Group](https://github.com/w3c/web-advertising) (wseltzer)

* Potential Topics
  * MIX
    * CR -> PR is Waiting on Mike™.
  * Referrer Policy
  * Permissions (https://blog.chromium.org/2020/01/introducing-quieter-permission-ui-for.html)
  * SRI ([integrity for inline scripts/style](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec-subresource-integrity/pull/86))
  * PaymentRequest and native apps ([thread](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webappsec/2020Jan/0012.html))
  * nonces and JavaScript import and import functions
