
## WebAppSec WG

2020-08-18

### Attendees
* Jun Kokatsu (マイクロソフト)
* Mike West
* Giorgio Maone
* Terri Oda
* Martin Meyer (Akamai)
* Sam Weiler (W3C/MIT)
* Dan Veditz
* John Wilander
* Melanie Richards
* Sam Goto
* Dom Farolino
* Gerhard Oosthuizen
* Yifan Luo
* Marshall Vale
* Kaustubha Govind
* Dirk Balfanz
* Ian Clelland
* Justin Toupin
* Emily Stark
* Tim Cappalli
* Ken Buchanan
* Erhard Brand
* Mingzhe Li
* Dylan Cutler
* Wendy Seltzer (W3C)
* You?



### Previous Meeting

https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/blob/master/meetings/2020/2020-07-21-minutes.md

### Logistics

* <https://mit.zoom.us/join>
* Meeting ID: 993 7534 3999
* Password: w3c
* US : +1 646 558 8656 or +1 669 900 6833
* International Numbers: https://mit.zoom.us/u/aezpAicYyd


## [`IsLoggedIn`](https://github.com/privacycg/is-logged-in)

mkwest: this is in the PrivacyCG, right?

John: Yes

Melanie: recently joined as co-editor

John: First, what IsLoggedIn is not: not a new loging mechanism; not replacing existing login mechanims, though that might be required.  Just capturing one piece of info: is user logged in or not?  Empowerment signal: lets browser use signal. Browsers have heuristics e.g. engagement, feeding decision for how long to keep state.  And @@. Not really serving right purpose, but good enough.  If browser could know user is logged in, more powerful; more distinct.  Could use to expire storage when not logged in.  Could have "clear data excpet where I'm logged in".  could imagine prompts when browser knows e.g. about cookie access - user context will be different.  proposed as JS API.  Need protections around use of this signal.  Could be, e.g. WebAuth or CredMan was used.  Or a prompt.  

Melanie: 3 methods, one for each state, one for checking.  embedded 3rd parties might want to check. need to make sure api can't be abused.  could be complementary with other proposals.  Q's re: how this integrates with SSO flows.  Q's re: supporting @@ states e.g. remember username but not other things.

weiler: As you both said, you need to protect this signal from abuse. Talked about heuristics. Why not just use those heuristics directly as a gatekeeper for state? Why do we need this signal?  https://github.com/privacycg/is-logged-in/issues/14

wilander: There's a GitHub issue on this (link #TODO). I think if it was just down to the managed authentication flows, we could make it work. Password manager, WebAuthn, that's good enough. But two other things: 1. The user need to be able to log out, store that state. There's not a good heuristic for this action. Needs to be a distinct thing. 2. So many custom login flows. Site may be actively trying to break password managers. Something might happen with your phone to enable login. Invisible to browser. Better to just give the site the ability to make an assertion.

weiler: Logout, I get. There's a good case for that kind of signal. The strange flows to support suggests that the problem of trusting the signal is hard, that the heuristics won't be good enough.

wilander: Yes. This is hard. Might solve with a prompt, or prominant UI in the browser that could help users understand and react. As an example: BankID in Sweden. Site shows a QR code that you scan with your phone: magically moves you to logged-in state. Also note: Banks have such short limits on state that they're not really the canonical case.

jun: If you have this state, what does the browser do? Other than storage access, what's the use case? What do you want to expose, what's the risk of exposing those APIs?

wilander: Could imagine the Storage Access API only being available to sites with IsLoggedIn set. Or the prompt strings might be different if the bit is set, giving user more context. Active discussion around permissions, you could see the web moving towards piecemeal permission prompts: storage, location, sensors, never-ending set of prompts. IsLoggedIn signal might help us provide the right controls. It tells the browser that the user has a strong relationship with the website, when it asks for some permission, perhaps the grant could persist longer. Revoke permission when user logs out. Not part of the proposal.

jun: Probably not a security concern for sites to trick the browser by setting the value?

wilander: Some hardliners think this should only be for managed authentication flows: WebAuthN, Password Managers. In that case, you could probably trust the signal more, could make it a security boundary maybe. I don't see it that way. More of a signal to be more relaxed around certain things. Allowing persistence, etc.

Melanie: I am attracted to a sliding scale of user settings in the browser. Clearing storage is blunt. More granularity might be useful. User study around permission prompts earlier this year: want to limit time range for sites to access a permission. But they don't want to see prompts all over the web. IsLoggedIn might be a useful signal.

dveditz: How do we keep sites from abusing this? If we tie it to good things, bad sites will want them?

Melanie: We probably don't want to create elevated permissions. This is not a security boundary. We want to smooth over the user experience, create finer-grained controls.

wilander: Some of the thoughts we've had since TPAC have been around defending the signal. If we can't defend it, it's not useful. Maybe it's ok to allow sites to claim the user is logged in for a short period of time. No prompts for that. Add a duration to the signal that the site can claim. If it's under a ~week, then it's probably fine. We're not going to clear cookies that frequently anyway, no big deal. But if they claim 90 days, we might ask the user.

weiler: To Dan: the heuristics in the draft are worth looking at. For the proposal: looking at banks, they have a short session, but need persistent state to know the user _was_ here. Anti-fraud. "Soft" logged-out.

wilander: This is in the feedback section, isn't it?

Melanie: There's a "remember me" we're looking into.

wilander: The browser doesn't have to _delete_ data. It could _hide_ data. We might keep data around, and if you take the user through a login flow, we might reveal the previously stored data. Then you can decide to do second factor, etcv.

goto (robot sam): Can you give us a sense of the problem you're trying to solve? You've talked about a broad range here, would like to understand which are most pressing? Alternatives to address these problems?

wilander: We came to this from the privacy angle. At the core of tracking prevention lies the challenge of disentangling logins from tracking state. There's a tradeoff: if we're too aggressive, we log users out of sites they care about. If we're too lax, we allow trackers to track. The same mechanisms are in use. Knowing where users are actually logged in is helpful. Also one of the few states that the user actually understands. Other heuristics, scrolls, clicks, engagement, etc. are less visible to users. We want the browser to come closer to users' understanding.


## [WebID](https://github.com/WICG/WebID)

Justin Toupin: We think federation is good for the web. It's something we'd like to preserve, and ensure that it works well for users and developers. Safer than usernames and passwords. Problems with federation as it exists today. Low level primitives that can be used for cross-site communication and tracking. Hard for the browser to know that a federated sign-in is occurring. Also, if you use an identity provider to sign-in with multiple relying parties, identifiers may be shared between multiple sites (email address, etc). We're proposing a new API to deal with these flows.

wilander: I read the explainer, and searched for "webid". There's an existing WebID in W3C from 2014. Need to fix that. Confusing! Two things: 1. I think the classification problem is similar to `IsLoggedIn`. There could be a bridge here: doing a federated login flow should allow for the dependent site to set the bit. That should be enough to be considered a manager flow. User logged into site B via site A. That's useful to know. 2. Is WebID tied to any formal state? HTTP State Tokens? Is there some token being forwarded to the relying site?

Justin: We don't yet have firm thinking there. Would be interested in hearing more.

wilander: HTTP State Tokens, or cookies with a specified format, could help the browser understand that "This is the thing that carries cryptographic proof that a security thing happened". Knowing which value is important is helpful.

Justin: Many more questions than answers right now. Early proposal. Enterprise, for instance. Some privacy principles are different there. Also looking at authorization cases. Simple "I want to log in!" vs "I want access to some resource!"

wilander: "WebSSO" was considered as well. Is this only SSO? I think federation and SSO are different.

Justin: It's hard to tease those apart. WebID is overloaded. We could change it.

wilander: Google is a good example: SSO between google.com and youtube.com. Different from Pinterest.

Justin: Focused on social login. Federation.

weiler: 1. I appreciate that you're trying to tackle RP tracking via directed identifiers (origin-specific email addresses, etc). 2. Deployability. Only a handful of IDPs. What makes it easier for RPs use use more IDPs - or use the user's choice of IDP?

Justin: For folks who haven't read the doc: there's a comment made that we can leverage existing IDP deployments of SDKs. We've learned that this isn't true on the enterprise side. The strategy doesn't work as well there, thousands of IDPs in that space.

weiler: Can we make it easier for RPs to use a variety of IDPs.

Justin: Analogies to Payment Request API. Instead of implementing 3p wallet solutions, implement this API! What we've learned is that it takes a long time for enough folks to migrate to the new thing for that to really be an option. While browsers have different capability, RPs need to support everything. Requires ecosystem support to really move. The Web API needs to work everywhere, or someone needs to deal with the logic. SDKs.

wilander: Second layer to this: 4th parties who keep track of your preferred login provider. "You usually use your Microsoft account to sign in, so I'll show that to you." Might be valuable to set a preferred sign-in provider.

goto: We've seen that in the past. accountchooser.net, trying to solve the NASCAR problem wherein you forget which provider you care about for this site.

wilander: The need for those things today might be resolved by formalizing it.

goto: We have a lot of empathy for one of the `IsLoggedIn` problems. something that we call "The Session State Opacity Problem" or "First Party Tracking Problem" (<https://github.com/WICG/WebID/blob/master/problems.md#the-session-state-opacity-problem>). Maybe we can converge on terminology. Logging out is a UX construct, not a browser construct. 1st party tricking you into thinking you're signed out, but the website is still tracking your history.

wilander: It's acknowledged in the IsLoggedIn work that ensuring that sites do the right thing when signing out is important. We've seen issues like that in the past around ITP.

goto: We expect that WebID will mediate login, and will flow into the `IsLoggedIn` state that you're looking it. That bit is implied by a call that the website has made to enable federation. Could we formalize login forms as well? And derive `IsLoggedIn` implicitly rather than explicitly?

wilander: Heuristics for login forms. Password managers. We've also realized that actual flows aren't good enough: user enters things into a form, they might fail to log in! Wrong password! We need the site to help us understand that the user did login. Could this have been a real login? If we only had the heuristic, we might misunderstand.

goto: For WebID, it's not a heuristic.

wilander: Formalized success state? That might be something to cover. The server says "Yes, this was ok. I succeeded."

mkwst: Asking about the existing Credential Management API -- seems like storing a credential would be an explicit signal, for example. Note the CredMan API has the inverse  of this "require user mediation". Seems like the credential manager is a good place for us to collaborate since it's an API about explicitly managing this state.

wilander: We looked into how we could reformulate those prompts. You're right that saving credentials is late-enough in the flow to know that 

mkwst: my suggestion was that if a user has a stored credential for the site they have a different kind of relationship with this site than some other random site.

wilander: We asked folks to look at their stored crednetials. They have stale accounts from 8 years ago.

Goto: does credman have the concept of logging out?

mkwst: it has the signal that user mediation is required which implies a logged-out state.

## [HTTP State Tokens](https://mikewest.github.io/http-state-tokens/draft-west-http-state-tokens.html)

mkwst: we've run out of time so we'll cover this next time.

## Agenda

* [`IsLoggedIn`](https://github.com/privacycg/is-logged-in)
  * John Wilander and Melanie Richards will walk us through this PrivacyCG proposal.
* [WebID](https://github.com/WICG/WebID)
  * Sam Goto (and friends!) will walk us through this WICG proposal.
* [HTTP State Tokens](https://mikewest.github.io/http-state-tokens/draft-west-http-state-tokens.html)
  * Mike West will update folks on this proposal.
