# WebAppSec WG - 2019-04-17

Present: wseltzer, francois, gmaone, estark, mkwst, weiler, jyasskin, terri, johnwilander, ckerschb, dveditz, pranjal, tanvi, jdeblasio, jeffh, rouslan, mikeoneill, timeless

Agenda: https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/blob/master/meetings/2019/2019-04-17.agenda.md

## Minutes

* Approve last call's minutes: https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/blob/master/meetings/2019/2019-03-20.minutes.md
no objections

## Administrivia

* Time?
* Video?
* Cryptpad?

#### Cryptpad

mkwst: Is collaborative note taking working for folks? I like it. thoughts about timing of the call? I know estark has conflicts with this time on this day, but others? Not a good time for APAC folks. Do we have an audience there who is unable to attend? Or not? hard to tell.
If this is a good time we can find a better day (I know there are conflicts on Wed for some folks)

moneill: Works for me.

mkwst: I realize the call is not the right place to get an answer, will start a mail thread.

timeless: I get some really annoying flickering artifacts in chrome when people are typing and the scrollbar on the left side comes and goes.

timeless: because the minutes have scrolled far into the future, there's no practical way for me to realize that everyone has moved on (this isn't a problem in irc flow since the cursor generally speaking follows the flow).

#### Time

dveditz: Alternating times? US/EU, APAC/EU, US/APAC?

mkwst: if the audience is the same then alternating times are a complication, but if it will pull in more folks...

#### Video

mkwst: is minuting working? are audio-only calls working or should we add video? Main question: do people want to go back to IRC note-taking? [crickets]

weiler: PING group is planning to use zoom, don't know what the TAG is using.



## [Feature Policy FPWD](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webappsec/2019Mar/0002.html)


https://www.w3.org/TR/feature-policy-1/

mkwst: feature-policy has been published as a FPWD. Ian is still working

dveditz: W3 has put out a call for exclusions for FP. Sent to the AC reps for this group's members. Now is the window of time for exclusions.

wseltzer: Send the doc to your lawyers to ensure they're aware of the patent commitments exclusion period. If no exclusion, Royalty-Free committments accrue.

#### Payments: can we require embedded iframes to explicitly allow embedders? (rouslan@)

see: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webappsec/2019Apr/0029.html  (iclelland's reply)


rouslan: Payment Request uses Feature Policy. 
Attacking website may trick users into performing payments into my iframe (they specify `<iframe allow=payment>`, and frame the victim page, which can then be tricked into allowing payments). Perhaps it would make sense for there to be

mkwst: embedding is just a part of the web... enumerates several thoughts wrt how embedded frames/docs can give permission to be embedded and allow powerful apis to be used

rouslan: sounds like there are already thoughts along these lines. Is there a thread or github issue talking about this where I could inject myself and say "Hey, payments needs to be one of these powerful features"

mkwst: Please file an issue on
https://github.com/w3c/webappsec-feature-policy/issues and CC iclelland@.


## Fetch Metadata

* CfC to adopt into WebAppSec: https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/issues/550
* Intent to ship Sec-Fetch-{Mode,Site,User} in Chrome

mkwst: browser will send additional info/hints to the server which the server can use to make decisions. [Is it a link click, or a fetch()? An image being requested as a `<script>`? -dveditz]

... on the list Francois noted Brave was interested. Anne thought it should be part of Fetch instead. Several people noted it was useful to have a separate document describing the feature and how and why you might want to use it. Others have noted the proliferation of separate documents devs need to keep in their head makes it harder. "chair hat off" I think it would be good for this group to adopt it, but the bulk of the normative content should live in fetch.

... does that work for folks?

jeffh: that would be good, we're often lacking documents explaining the rationale behind features

dveditz: a "note" rather than a "recommendation"?

mkwst: depends on what is left after we put the appropriate things in Fetch. I don't have strong opinions at this point. is there a difference, wseltzer?

wseltzer: we have to pick one to start, but it can be changed later. FPWD triggers some IP protections and CfE.

dveditz: it would be good to have IP protection here if it's not already covered by Fetch.


### Spectre-mitigation via CORS-only? Credentialless? CORP? [whatwg/html#4175](https://github.com/whatwg/html/issues/4175)

mkwst: we talked about this a bit last call, too [see the minutes]. In browsers that don't have process-level or frame-level isolation ...  features like Shared Array Buffer and so on make Spectre like attacks more risky.

basic idea is that the top-level document opts-in to some mode that lets it use things like Shared Array Buffer, with the consequence that its requests are tainted, such that cross-origin subrequests would have to opt-in to being included in that process. Only if the resource specifies cross-site or same-site can it be used by this more powerful/dangerous document.

works relatively well for sub-resources. questions remain for frames and popups. Browsers that support multiple processes could shift those into a separated process. Had a discussion at BlinkOn last week, folks from 
Chrome, Mozilla and Edge (and?) were there. Advantage is you can opt-in to a weaker-than-CORS visibility and still be included (otherwise we worry devs will simply open themselves up to full CORS just to make things work).

jwilander: I was involved originally in CORP, so Safari has that part working. Discussions on mobile where we have more limited resources. We're definitely interested in this space, don't think we've looked at this particular issue.



### Non-secure downloads (@estark37)

estark: I also have Joe DeBlasio here with me who's also working on this project. we're trying to make a dent in http downloads, find a set of downloads we can block to increase user safety without breaking too much. We think adding new kinds of "INSECURE!!!" warnings aren't going to be that helpful.

... Want to treat insecure downloads from secure pages as "active mixed content" and block them. We don't have good metrics because of how Chrome is instrumented but have an upper bound of .0002% navigations will be affected, maybe a real number of .0001%

tanvi: % of downloads or % of navigations?

estark: Navigations.

jdeblasio: insecure downloads make up ~16% of downloads. we're going to only slice some of those off, "high-risk" downloads from "secure pages" so maybe 2% of downloads.

tanvi: you look at the name/extension and follow from there?

estark: for metrics we're looking at content-type, but for actual code we think we'll use something like the code for safe browsing which is a combination of content-type, extension, and some sniffing.

tanvi: Request would still go out and still receive response, you'd just throw it away in certain cases?

jdeblasio: Until we get the response headers, we might not know that it's a download (`content-disposition`).

estark:  warnings on http pages are getting more aggressive, so that's why we're focusing on nonsecure downloads from secure pages. Main concern is whether this makes it harder for sites to migrate to https. Will we have to do something else, like SRI for downloads?

mkwst: carving things out is great and this looks like something we can trim. We seem to be less worried about creating impositions to sites converting to https these days (trends looking good). SRI for downloads are a good thing, but I don't think SRI should be a reason for not requiring TLS for downloads (information is still leaked by the request). Length analysis is probably more effective for downloads than other content types so SRI is valuable.

estark: would we be happy in 10 years if all sites are https but downloads are over http with SRI? if not then we shouldn't accept it now [as opposed to blocking insecure downloads]

mkwst: SRI for downloads is valuable, someone should work on it. but not a substitute for https.

jwilander: need to be sure to check every hop in the redirect chain

estark: yes, checking all redirects in the chain and so covering that. The workaround we expect to see is folks moving users from an HTTPS downloads page to an HTTP intermediary (page?) that would then generate an HTTP download. That seems better than status quo insofar as we're actively displaying "Not secure" to users, setting their expectations correctly.

timeless: wouldn't it be possible for them to do that w/ automatic redirects which while admittedly temporarily result in an insecure page, could at the end redirect back to a secure page, leaving users w/ minimal awareness that the transition happened?

timeless wanted to ask if there's a sense of impact for `alexa top 100`/`alexa top 1 million`

estark: don't think I can share that without getting approval, unfortunately. Unless you're going to crawl alexa you can't really answer it. It's not as simple as "what % of alexa supports https"


### Pointer to PING call tomorrow

* Using video! (Zoom)

see public-privacy mailing list for call details
