# WebAppSec WG - 2026-02-18

## Logistics

*   **`#webappsec`** on [W3C's slack instance](https://w3ccommunity.slack.com/)
    * <https://www.w3.org/slack-w3ccommunity-invite> if you haven't already joined.
*   **Zoom**:
    * Details at <https://auth.w3.org/?url=https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/webappsec/calendar>


## Attendees

* Mike West (Google)
* Shivani Sharma (Google)
* Artur Janc (Google)
* Harsh Singhal (Amazon)
* Simon Friedberger (Mozilla)
* Anna Weine (Mozilla)
* Simone Onofri (W3C)
* Tom Schuster (Mozilla)
*Jessica Chen (Microsoft)
*
*
*
* (You!)


## Agenda

* [Connection Allowlist](https://wicg.github.io/connection-allowlists/) status updates (@shivanigithub)
* [Tab-Isolated Token Protocol](https://github.com/Harsh0/xss-mitigation-explainer) proposal (@Harsh0)


## Minutes

### [Connection Allowlist](https://wicg.github.io/connection-allowlists/) status updates

Shivani: [Presentation]

...: Progress update on Connection Allowlist. Problem we're trying to solve: we're hearing from web applications that need control over what goes from the browser to the network. Dynamically-generated code (AI) is one use case; requires sensitive data, shouldn't leak from the context. Untrusted code, prompt injection.

...: CSP exists, which can solve this problem to some extent. But, it wasn't designed for exfiltration protection: DNS, navigation, WebRTC, etc.

...: Vision is that the website can isolate parts of the site to prevent exfiltration to untrusted origins (or to any origin, via an empty allowlist).

...: Based on URLPattern rather than CSP's syntax. Defense in depth, works alongside things like `<iframe sandbox>`.

...: Threat model: core goal is to defend against exfiltration. Connections and requests are in scope, browser must block connections before they're established, and it must be comprehensive.

...: Out of scope: server-side compromise, xsleaks.

Simon: Why is this not in CSP? Reasons for not doing it were "CSP is complicated". Seems thin. We should work on that. CSP covers a number of exfiltration paths. Why do a new thing?

CSP for XSS is mostly hash based and less URL based. We want to emphasize this story instead of exfiltration mitigation.

[discussion]

Tom: Very hard to do this correctly. Target audience doesn't exist.

Artur: Can we talk about the delta between Connection Allowlist and CSP, assuming the model Tom describes where you'd use CSP for exfiltration? WebRTC has a directive, right?

Shivani: Navigation. Prefetch, preload, preconnect, DNS prefetch, WebSocket, Web Transport. Within navigation, `history.back`, other APIs.

Artur: I could imagine a world where we'd add this to CSP. Agree with Mike that it'd be difficult to understand. But because of how restrictive Connection Allowlist is, and the niche use case, I could see a world where adding switches to CSP would be enough. Small number of developers, they'd figure it out. But I'm in favor of somethinfg simpler.

Simon: Still has to interact with CSP. Inheritance, etc. need to be sorted out.

[More discussion.]

Shivani: Navigations. We're checking many requests in the network service, but navigation is distinct. Detail on the Chromium implementation is available in the design doc.

...: Reporting, similar to the way CSP does things.

...: Open questions: redirects. We might want to deviate from CSP's approach here. Once the data has left the browser, it's no longer under the client's control. Perhaps redirects are out of scope for Connection Allowlists. Attribute on <iframe>, similar to CSP:EE.

Artur: On redirects: in practice, open redirects exist all over the place. Might not be a good idea to just enable them in a blanket fashion. Would be a big gap. If it's optional, that's probably fine.

Shivani: Discussion necessary about how we'd apply URLPatterns. Looking for feedback on all of this. GitHub issues!


### [Tab-Isolated Token Protocol](https://github.com/Harsh0/xss-mitigation-explainer) proposal

Harsh: This proposal came out XSS mitigation mechanisms for Amazon Music. CSP helps us avoid bad script sending a token to a server, but we don't have a mechanism of preventing an XSS from placing orders from a user's machine. It would be great to find a CSRF-like solution we could build into the browser.

...: There are mechanisms like CSP which aim to avoid bad scripts sending a token to the server, but they can still take bad actions in the server. This proposal involves a JavaScript application making a request to a Token Generator service which sets a tab-specific cookie. A general cookie would apply to all tabs, including tabs which were opened previously or which were in other portions of the site. This approach enables backend servers to distinguish between legitimate and malicious requests post-XSS injection. Standardizes CSRF mitigation.

...: Client script will make a call to a backend server to obtain a token. Each subsequent API call will use this token. Without the token, the server can reject the call. 

...: What if a cross-site script can sniff the `fetch()` call? What about <iframe>? Instead of a standard request, JavaScript code will create a key pair, and encrypt the request. The response will be encrypted with the public key, and only the legitimate application can decrypt the response. Since malicious code won't have access to the private key, this will be safe.

...: Server can look at the tab cookie and the token that's passed in. Mapping the token to the tab based on their security policies. The tab ID won't be available to the JavaScript, only delivered to the server.

Simon: To jump back a bit, you want tab-only cookies so that XSS in one tab can't make requests with cookies from another?

Harsh: Aiming to prevent cross-site scripting attack from making a call to the backend server to take some action. Hijacking `amazon.com` would allow me to place orders. CSP can't defend against that if the script executes.

Simon: If the cookie is tab-scoped, how does that help?

Harsh: This cookie creates an authentication mechanism you can use along with your main cookie. Both need to be validated to ensure that the legitimate JavaScript is executing.

Simon: Sounds similar to CSP?

Mike: Distinction between tab-specific cookie and the token that's handed to JavaScript within that tab's context. Server would bind the two together, and as long as you can protect the token, malicious script won't be able to use it. CSRF-like mitigation.

Harsh: Proposal is to introduce a tab-only cookie attribute, applying a cookie only to a tab, destroyed on refresh. With that, this mechanism can work.
    
Artur: A few challenges you might have: same-origin policy is the main boundary. Script within an origin doesn't really have any separation. Your threat model is one in which a document executes an untrusted script while the user is logged in. In that model, the injected script has so much access to the injected script and the origin from which it's executing that it's difficult to imagine real distinction between the two. Overwriting `fetch()`, for instance, would allow reading information not only on the initial request but on subsequent requests as well. Attacker can call `.click()` to cause bad things to happen without subverting JavaScript, purchase button would attach the token because that's what needs to happen for a legitimate click. So it's difficult for this technique to provide guarantees.

Harsh: For `click()`: out of scope for this proposal. Not trying to mitigate that. To the first concern, sniffing `fetch()` to extract the token. To mitigate that we can build a solution on top of this where we'd pass a timestamp with the token, and encrypt them both together. Sniffing the token wouldn't allow you to re-pass the token, bound to a particular header.

Artur: Script can just change the URL of the request so that it goes elsewhere but still has the original URL.

Harsh: Even if able to send the token elsewhere, you can't use it.

Artur: No, would request to the victim server.

Harsh: Also bound to operation. Could solve this. Tab-only cookie, destroyed on refresh, remains helpful.
