# Web Application Security WG

[Wednesday, April 19th: 16:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230419T1600) (09:00 California, 12:00 Boston, 16:00 London, 17:00 Berlin)

## Attendees  

* Abdulrahman Alqabandi (Microsoft)
* Philippe Le Hegaret, W3C
* Tom Van Goethem, Google
* Artur Janc, Google
* Dan Veditz, Mozilla
* David Dworken, Google
* Ari Chivukula, Google
* Jun Kokatsu, Google
* Krzysztof Kotowicz, Google
* Ian Clelland, Google
* Tom Schuster, Mozilla
* Paul Zuehlcke, Mozilla
* Bartosz Niemczura, Meta
* Aaron Shim, Google
* Steven Bingler, Google Chrome
* Chris Fredrickson, Google
* Johann Hofmann, Google Chrome 
* Kaustubha Govind, Google Chrome
* Dylan Cutler, Google Chrome


### Draft Agenda

* Johann Hofmann will present a proposal for standardizing cross-site cookie semantics <https://github.com/DCtheTall/standardizing-cross-site-cookie-semantics/> in the interest of solving security challenges that arise when cross-site cookies continue to be allowed by default in edge cases

* Bartosz Niemczura will lead a discussion on interest and potential paths for supporting Trusted Types across browsers.

* [W3C TPAC 2023](https://www.w3.org/2023/09/TPAC/): 11–15 September, Seville, Spain & online

## Minutes 

### Cross-Site Cookie Semantics

[Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1TVtc2jfSDk1tdrrAATypGnaXWE3TFNMhLdvL7zbl-QA/edit?usp=sharing)

Johann: Cookies. While working on third-party cookie deprecation, we noticed differences in the ways browsers handle third-party cookies. Not really privacy-relevant, but security implications.

...: Cookies allow cross-site tracking.

...: Major browsers have or will block unpartitioned cross-site cookies by default. Controls implemented differently, differences in website security considerations. "Site for cookies" vs "Top-level site".

...: Hook for WebAppSec: want browser vendors to align on right behavior. Eventually could land as a standardization effort here or IETF. But want to make sure we talk about the security concerns, share understanding.

...: `SameSite`: want to aim for better default protections than `SameSite` because once cross-site cookies are blocked in all browsers, developers may be less vigilant about using it.

Dylan: Use cases for `SameSite=None`.

...: A->B->A embeds. If A embeds B which then embeds A, browsers differ in cookie behavior in that inner frame. Known usage of this pattern in major web applications: could perhaps satisfy those via Storage Access API.

...: Cross-site embed navigating to a same-site page. A embeds B. B initiates a top-level navigation to A. B could CSRF against A. But large IDPs rely on this behavior. We'd like to allow `SameSite=None` in this case, perhaps limited to exclude `POST`.

...: Top-level cross-site POST requests: widespread usage in 3D-Secure. Some risk of CSRF. Should allow cookies in these contexts.

...: Redirecting cross-site subresources to same-site URLs. Safari introduced cookie blocking latch-mode to block in these cases. Blocking seems reasonable.

...: Recommendations: In embedded contexts, use "site for cookies". Navigating embeds to same-site should send `SameSite=None`. Top-level navigations follow existing `SameSite` rules.

...: Interested in feedback! File issues against the GitHub repository: <https://github.com/DCtheTall/standardizing-cross-site-cookie-semantics/>.

dveditz: Navigating cross-site was one of the contentious issues of `SameSite`. Only `Strict` protects anything, but folks don't want to use it because of breakage. If we force that automatically, it would likely break things.

Johann: We want to use existing `SameSite` rules in these cases. `Lax` differs from `Strict`, applying those seems fine. Increasing security generally, but accepting storage access API as an opt-out.

dveditz: Third-party redirect to first-party. Currently considered cross-site: didn't understand proposed change.

Johann: Depends on which context you're in. Embedded context, not a document navigation, we'd recommend blocking `SameSite=None` as Safari is already getting away with that. In this particular case we're making it easy on ourselves by saying "Some browsers are doing it, we don't know of breakage...". Obviously, if we discover things that break, we'd want to talk about it.

dveditz: Sure, certainly an existing attack vector, would be good to close.

Artur: Responding to dveditz. Restrictions are primarily for embedded contexts. At top-level, recommendation was to keep `SameSite=None` cookies for GET and POST. Would be ideal if we could strip them entirely to eradicate CSRF. This still enables CSRF for sites that use `SameSite=None`. But embedded contexts would be well-protected.

dveditz: People who are here: all Google. A little Mozilla. Not many webby folks (notwithstanding the good web work folks here do). But would be ideal to get more feedback.

Johann: Might need some sort of deprecation step prior to removing access to third-party cookies. Aim to go through the usual process for all of this in the hopes of reaching wider audience.

dveditz: Back to IETF: browser vs other use cases, documents embedded in others, etc. This seems like a fine place to talk about that kind of complexity.

Jun: If we want more web folks in this discussion, I'd recommend listing which cookies are sent in which scenarios, as that would help bug hunters find ways of using these differences to attack.

Johann: Drawing attention to the risks is interesting. But things are "fine" right now as Chrome is still allowing `SameSite=none` everywhere. Worried about that changing as deprecation continues.

Artur: This is important. Moving to a web where cross-site requests generally don't contain cookies. I don't think folks have thought about wha happens if that model shifts without us making these hardening changes. Random ads on your page would increase your attack surface in the future without them.

### Trusted Types

[Reference Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1K0CPfe9rA5gq3Rlo4B5FTgqfFiCYK1vl2GUJuftIzjY)

1. XSS is still prevalent in Web Applications:
2. Adoption across the Internet:
3. Browser Support: https://caniuse.com/trusted-types


Bartosz: XSS remains prevalent in web applications. TT adoption across internet. TT adoption in browsers.

...: About a year ago we talked about deployment. Good information in [link to whenever that was](...).

...: XSS remains prevalent. XSS increased 7% YoY according to hackerone, still top issue. Other organizations agree. Bugcrowd. Mitre (CVEs). OWASP, etc.

...: Trusted Type adoption: Meta enforces across 70% of their sites. Added support to React. Microsoft.

Abdulrahman: Default TT enforcement in WebUI pages in Edge. Partial enforcement in WebUI's associated domains when they embed content from the web.

koto: Google's happy with TT as well, unsurprisingly. 70% of most sensitive apps enforce TT. Rolling out across more apps and frameworks. Also successful integrations with code that wasn't built for this model (acquisitions).

...: GitHub is interested, not sure of details. Enforcement at around 14% of pageloads in Chrome. HTTPArchive shows 200+ non-Google domains enforcing TT. 160+ with report-only TT enforcement. Some of those results show shared login pages (Heroku, Knudge, Erply), suggesting some backend application that's enforcing.

...: 75% of third-party JS packages used in Google apps are compliant with TT. React, Next.js, JQuery 4.

Bartosz: Trusted Types in browsers: Chromium browsers support,  Firefox and Safari don't. Overall position from Mozilla is "Not Harmful", looking for more information about usage, etc. Hoping this conversation rekindles that discussion.

dveditz: Stats on # of XSS prevented by Trusted Types? Maybe in the form of "this XSS works on non-Chromium browsers".

Bartosz: I personally don't. The reports I showed earlier weren't that fine-grained. In Meta, we've seen TT successfully mitigate vulnerabilities.

koto: The way Google uses Trusted Types wraps the call to native APIs with a higher-level library. So, for applications that do Trusted Types at Google, we see 0 XSS. We talked about `blob:` URLs a month ago, which is one bypass we've seen, but the work we do to support TT eliminates XSS.

dveditz: So, TT's value is in the rewriting. But there's a possibility without enforcement that someone could inject additional code. So, 95% of the value is the rewrite? Our position is "not harmful", but there's not a lot of support from management for assigning resources to this work, so I'm looking for evidence of success.

Jun: Normal developers don't understand this. They see lack of support in non-Chromium browsers, so they wait on their implementations until that support exists. Hard to convey "Hey, you don't need Firefox support to do this, it'll help you regardless."

dveditz: Like running ASAN. You'll find issues, fix them.

koto: We did catch instances where TT showed us where an XSS would have existed through CSP enforcement.

dveditz: Blog posts, success stories would be helpful.

Bartosz: Third-party libraries. Even if folks don't rewrite their code, they still get benefits from the work libraries have done.

Artur: Nice features of TT is that it helps across browsers regardless of their support, which makes it harder to get support in those browsers. Ironic. But, subclass: location assignments aren't polyfillable. Is it possible the applications could be TT-compatible, but location assignment could still create vulnerabilities in other browsers.

koto: Regular CSP would probably also prevent it? But yes, it enables protection without opting into the rest of CSP.

Bartosz: Other forums to discuss this? Would like to get a position from Safari.

mkwst: https://github.com/webkit/standards-position/

dveditz: Note that "not harmful" position still lead Mozilla to file a formal objection about the topic in our rechartering, so not entirely neutral.

### TPAC 2023

* [W3C TPAC 2023](https://www.w3.org/2023/09/TPAC/): 11–15 September, Seville, Spain & online
* [Survey](https://www.w3.org/2002/09/wbs/1/GroupsTPAC2023/) (open for answers until 23:59, Boston time on 2023-05-08)

plh: Hybrid meeting. Said we didn't want overlap with private advertising.

mkwst: Travel budgets, etc. Will need to work things out in various companies, so continuing hybrid will be important.

### Next call, May 17th

We'll plan it in https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/issues/622.

**IMPORTANT** New Zoom meeting ID:
 https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/6ad14db6-7433-477a-a5ff-cebcb52cbc0e/20230517T120000/
 (don't forget to login to see the joining instructions)
