# Web Application Security WG: 2023-07-19

[Wednesday, July 19th: 16:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230719T1600) \
<small>09:00 California, 12:00 Boston, 17:00 London, 18:00 Berlin</small>

### Attendees  

* Mike West (Google)
* Shivan Kaul Sahib (Brave)
* Joe DeBlasio (Google)
* Dan Veditz (Mozilla)
* Paul Zuehlcke (Mozilla)
* Artur Janc (Google)
* Tom Van Goethem (Google)
* Tim Cappalli (Microsoft Identity)


### Agenda

* [Shivan Kaul Sahib](https://github.com/ShivanKaul) will present [The `Off-The-Record` Response Header Field](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-sahib-httpbis-off-the-record/) draft for feedback.
* [Tim Cappalli](https://github.com/timcappalli) would like to talk about the [Passkey Endpoints Well-Known URL](https://github.com/ms-id-standards/MSIdentityStandardsExplainers/blob/main/PasskeyEndpointsWellKnownUrl/explainer.md) explainer.
* TPAC is coming: we'll continue to [sketch an agenda](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/issues/627).

## Minutes 

### The `Off-The-Record` Response Header Field

Shivan: [Slides].
...: Threat model: Attacker is local "UI-bound adversary". Has user's device passcode, but limited to standard user interfaces. No malware, no network snooping.
But does have access to browsing history, cookies, autocomplete, etc.

...: Attack is learning that the victim has visited a "sensitive" site.

...: Victim wishes to hide evidence that they've done so.

...: "Sensitive" is self-reported by website.

...: Use-cases: domestic abuse, intimate partner violence. We sometimes throw our hands up in these cases, but important. "Hand over your phone" checks similarly.

...: `Request-OTR: ?1`. "Client SHOULD treat the site as sensitive".

...: [Screenshot from Brave.] User consent, at least to begin with. Interstitial. UI indication they're in OTR mode.

...: Comparison with existing approaches: Overhiding in private browsing. Telltale gaps in browser history.

...: Easy to forget to start or close private browsing sessions.

...: Underhiding: hard to get rid of all traces. "Quick exit" buttons on sensitive sites are limited by whatever the website can do. Can't change browser history. `Clear-Site-Data` similarly doesn't touch history.

...: Depends on website for correct implementation of the above. Would be better for browser to take responsiblity.

...: Complicated: browsing history edit controls are hard.

...: Not retroactive, should happen at the beginning of a session.

...: Limitations: search engine. Doesn't cover the whole history. Didn't want to go with heuristics around this. 

...: Malicious websites covering their traces. Consent-based approach mitigates.

...: Status. Shipping in Brave. Working with researchers to evaluate effectiveness. Next steps: Standardization! HTTP WG ID [link goes here]. WebAppSec?

...: Feedback has been helpful, thanks for that!

dveditz: Comment about site abuse. `console.clear()` clears the output for devtools. We do see sites abusing that to make it difficult to see what they're doing. As long as researchers can avoid this, I don't think it's a problem. Interstitial approach mitigates.

Shivan: Good to understand what sites do in the wild.

mkwst: OTR mode?

Shivan: One thing we don't allow in OTR mode: extensions. Private Browsing can have extensions. Implementation complexity with extensions per-tab. Would like to come back to it. Also, per-tab as opposed to window-wide. Tried to otherwise keep them very similar.

dveditz: Does the spec require it to be per-tab? If a browser needs a new process, new window, etc? Might not be as elegant, but could be allowed?

Shivan: Spec doesn't prevent that.

dveditz: Frames?

Shivan: Our approach has been that it has to be the main frame that requests. In that case, all subframes are also OTR.

mkwst: Makes sense given threat model and etc.

Shivan: Motivation is for the user not to have to remember to close the session.

mkwst: thoughts about venue-- IETF or W3C is fine, but IETF folks will want to know how this applies to non-browser user agents. Defining the protocol (header syntax) is straightforward, but browser vendors will want more discussion about semmantics and how it interacts with other browser systems.

### Passkey Endpoints

Tim: https://github.com/ms-id-standards/MSIdentityStandardsExplainers/blob/main/PasskeyEndpointsWellKnownUrl/explainer.md

...: Heavy influence from `change-password` well-known URL.

...: Passkeys! They're great! Some sync beyond the device upon which they're created. Some will still be on-device, of course. Prior to this effort, we had "security key" as a name for the authenticator, now we have a name for the credential.

...: Flows that allow use of passkey from phones, show all the passkeys associated with a given user.

...: This allows passkey providers to help user agents/password managers upgrade their credentials from passwords to passkeys. To that end, sites need a way to advertise that they support passkeys.

...: Could allow active toasts from the UA/OS to facilitate that upgrade.

...: Well-known URL returns JSON with various endpoints.

mkwst: for apps on phones there are already resources that let the apps advertize functionality that could include things like this, as opposed to having to fetch this data from a web URL (the URL makes sense for web apps, however)

^^^ Digital Asset Links

Tim: That's where the conversation started. But Windows doesn't have it. Can be difficult to get asset links updated; this is simpler. Nothing stopping folks from putting things in Digital Asset Links, etc as well. This is just a generic solution for this specific use case.

...: Privacy considerations would talk about obtaining consent before fetching/redirecting.

mkwst: this has the potential for launching apps that the user doesn't expect, and which may not have a legitimate tie with the advertising entity

Tim: Good point. Perhaps need more explicit binding.

mkwst: Something for "security considerations" in the spec.

dveditz: Mike talked about app references, but what about web? Do the URLs need to be same-origin? Same-site?

Tim: Thinking about the RP ID of the credential as the boundary. MS is an interesting example. `live.com`, `login.microsoft.com`, etc. Would reference webauthn spec for that boundary.

### TPAC

https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/issues/627
