## Web Application Security WG

[Wednesday, August 16th: 16:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230816T1600) \
09:00 California, 12:00 Boston, 17:00 London, 18:00 Berlin

_[Minutes from the 2023-07-19 meeting](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/blob/main/meetings/2023/2023-07-19-minutes.md)_

### Attendees  

* Mike West, Google
* Anshuman Goel, Microsoft
* Philippe Le Hegaret, W3C
* Daniel Huigens, Proton
* Joe DeBlasio, Google
* Andy Paicu, Google
* Jun Kokatsu, Google
* John Wilander, Apple WebKit
* Daniel Veditz, Mozilla
* Abdulrahman Alqabandi, Microsoft
* _You?_


### Agenda

* [Andy Paicu](https://github.com/andypaicu) will present a [Page Embedded Permission Control](https://github.com/andypaicu/PEPC/blob/main/explainer.md) (following on from [conversations](https://www.w3.org/Privacy/permissions-ws-2022/report#novel-building-blocks-for-capability-control) in the ~recent Permissions Workshop)

* Charter

* TPAC is coming (next month!): we'll continue to [sketch an agenda](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/issues/627).

* _Other ideas?_

### Minutes 

#### PEPC

* Explainer: https://github.com/andypaicu/PEPC/blob/main/explainer.md

* Andy: [Slides](#TODO). New way of looking at permissions on the web, we're hopeful it'll improve user experience.
  * Permission prompts. We're all familiar with them.
  * Not straightforward for many common scenarios:
    * User might not understand why a site is requesting a permission, what value they might gain from granting access. Example of a news site that requested notification capabilities after the user clicked on the empty area surrounding the article.
    * User might be engaged in a different task that has nothing to do with the permission requested by the site. Example of a new site that interrupted a flow to ask for notification permissions.
    * Regret: browsers generally suppress further permission requests. Differs from browser to browser. Some are permanent, some let the user decide, but at some point a user lands in a scenario in which a capability is blocked, but the user has changed their mind. Example of a video conference in which the user denied camera/microphone access, but now wants to grant those capabilities to engage in a call. UX differs across browsers.
    * Focus area: Prompts are far from where users are looking. Example of a mapping site where the "my location" button is in the bottom right corner, while the prompt is in the top-left. Problem grows with screen size.
  * Good UX:
    * Successful patterns involve sites presenting users with information and a button. User decides to click on the button, that click triggers the prompt. Seems successful. Higher grant rate: users expect the prompt and grant the permission. They initiated it themselves.
  * Proposal: `<permission>`.
    * Standardizes this good UX pattern. Add a new HTML element to do so. Sites will integrate it into their page, might be rendered as a browser-controlled button.
    * Browser gets a strong signal because it controls the UX, can assume intent, and have a location onscreen where the user's already paying attention.
    * Sites have easier access to a good user experience, as browsers provide a better control.
    * Example:
      * `<permission icon-style="solid" type="microphone">`. Site has no direct control over the element's content.
      * Sites can use the permission API to understand user interaction: `navigator.permission.query({name:"microphone"}).then(status => status.onchange= () => {...}`
  * Security:
    * Browser needs confidence that the user wants to engage with the permission. So restrictions on the element:
      * Text is set by the browser. Style is regulated by the browser: most properties are ignored, and only limited control over others (color contrast, etc).
      * Element's time on page in this location.
      * Occlusion
      * Etc. See explainer.
    * https://github.com/andypaicu/PEPC/blob/main/explainer.md
  * Feedback welcome!
* John Wilander: Prompt, prompt fatigue is an evergreen topic. Love to hear new ideas. Make this easier for users, protect their safety. I see the problem here. Questions:
  1. When we think about prompting in web standards, we have a list of things we ask ourselves: we want to share that with the standards community, working on that.
     * One thing we ask is "Can this be a picker, rather than a prompt?" Not relevant to all your examples, but would be good to include this in your thinking. File picking, printing, etc.
  2. What changes with this? Mostly trying to standardize the "pre-prompt"? Or trying to replace the browser's prompt? Different in terms of trustworthiness?
  3. Localization?
  4. Naming. `<permission>`. Not really _a_ permission. `<permission-request>`, `<permission-prompt>`, etc.
* Andy:
  1. Picker: I don't think we see picker permissions as having the same problem as others: they get straight to the point, don't usually suffer from the same problems. But no reason this couldn't integrate with capabilities that have pickers. Bigger UX improvement for others, but no reason we couldn't integrate with pickers too.
  2. Not suggesting that we replace the prompt, but replace "pre-prompt". Allows user agent to benefit from a stronger signal. Still needs a secondary confirmation outside the site's control.
  3. Localization: good open question! Right now we're thinking we might make use of the languages that the `accept-language` header sends: site needs to pick one. Not solidified, but thinking a `lang` attribute on the element, would need to be one the user understands, otherwise we can't trust the signal. Need to decide what to do if set to something else: user agent could refuse to treat a click on another language as a strong signal.
  4. Naming: No strong opinions. Maybe something else is better. Let's talk.
* John: If pre-prompt, ``
* Dan Veditz: Camera/Microphone is implemented as a picker in Firefox.
* John Wilander: Yes, browsers will probably start replacing prompts with pickers when possible. Need to think about it.
* Andy: Problem with using pickers for camera/microphone: leads to user confusion. Changing camera => regrants that users don't understand.
* Mike: Nothing about this proposal standardizes the UA's rendering of a prompt. They remain free to do whatever with the signal provided.
* Dan Veditz: In the example, self-closing tag with no content. On the page, it does have content. Is that content opaque to the page, or could they look in there to figure out what language you use, etc.
* Andy: ideally, opaque. Not sure it's feasable to cover all side-channels. Screen-sharing, for instance. Language: `<input type=file>` just uses the user's language. Want to look into conversation around that.
* Dan: Example doesn't use font styles. Would this use whatever browsers always use? Or inherit from the page?
* Andy: For fonts specifically, it seems to be a place where the UA needs control. Mentioned in the explainer. TL;DR: I expect there are a few properties where the browser would have an allowlist. "These X fonts are fine."

#### Charter

* Expired! Oh noes!

* What deliverables do we need in the charter? Will put together a draft. Consider incubations that might flow in. Clear up with relevant CG.

* Timeframe: two months ago.

* Will request an extension to the end of the year. Need to work through deliverables shortly.

* plh will post to the list.

#### TPAC

* https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/issues/627
