# Web Application Security WG

[Wednesday, January 18th: 17:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20230118T1700) (09:00 California, 12:00 Boston, 17:00 London, 18:00 Berlin)

## Attendees  

* You?
* Abdulrahman Alqabandi (Microsoft)
* Ian Clelland (Google)
* Camille Lamy (Google)
* Jonathan Hao (Google)
* Dan Veditz (Mozilla)
* Artur Janc (Google)
* John Wilander (Apple)
* Bartosz Niemczura (Meta)
* Titouan Rigoudy (Google)

Minutes from the 2022-11-16 meeting: https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/blob/main/meetings/2022/2022-11-16-minutes.md

### Draft Agenda

*   Loopback and [Private Network Access](https://wicg.github.io/private-network-access/) ([Jonathan Hao](https://github.com/jonathan79717), [Yifan Luo](https://github.com/iVanlIsh), [Titouan Rigoudy](https://github.com/letitz), [John Wilander](https://github.com/wilander))
*   Permissions Policy ([Ian Clelland](https://github.com/clelland))
*   [More capable CSP hashes](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec-csp/issues/574) ([Artur Janc](https://github.com/arturjanc))
*   `/.well-known/change-password` to REC? (@hober?)

(_Punting deprecations and defaults ([`Progressive-Security`](https://secweb.work/presentations/2022/Goethem-deprecation.pdf) and [`Baseline`](https://github.com/mikewest/baseline-header) and etc) to [February](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/issues/618)_)

## Minutes 

### Loopback and [PNA](https://wicg.github.io/private-network-access/)

John: Some movement in the WebKit contributor space on making changes here, getting better aligned with other browsers. Way back in 2016 we were talking about this, loopback interface. Wanted it to only be accessible from secure contexts, or if top frame is loopback. That's still what we want. Don't want HTTP to both HTTP and HTTPS. Hasn't happened yet. Couldn't get consensus on it. Maybe now we have that consensus. Where are other folks?

...: Also, work on preflights to protect devices on local networks. Where are we on that?

...: Also, expansion to intranets, local networks. Port scanning, etc.

dveditz: Loopback on Safari: I've heard complaints from people when we ask them to change the way they're doing things that Safari doesn't treat `http://localhost` as a secure context, and can't access it from a secure site.

John: Yeah. This is the unfortunate result of not convincing others in this group that we should only allow loopback within secure contexts. Other browsers said too much risk of breaking things if we did it in one step. We said we didn't want to increase risk.

Titouan: With preflights: Chrome has started sending them, and warning when the response doesn't allow the response, but we allow the request to go through. We aim to ship that "soon". How soon is still under discussion. Large number of connections, deprecation warnings haven't been successful enough yet.

...: No risk of DNS rebinding when HTTPS, so we don't do this for secure same-origin fetches. Removing that will probably improve our metrics. Still a fair amount of work ahead to roll it out.

...: Loopback to local network: we treat as private a fair number of address blocks that IANA has reserved for that purpose: an IP address whose meaning depends on where you are in the network. `192.168.1.1` means something different at my house and yours. Works for IPv4, IPv6 needs more work.

John: Great. Last question was secure context for loopback. Only in secure contexts?

Titouan: We have tried. Loopback isn't so much of a problem because Chromium allows `http://localhost` to load from HTTPS sites. Not mixed content. There is an escape hatch in the form of a deprecation trial. This is more useful for sites accessing things on the local network. Devices on local networks often don't have TLS certs, which makes things more challenging.

...: For those devices, permission prompt might be a solution.

John: Followup: no mixed content here.

dveditz: Chicken and egg problem.

John: One step transition.

dveditz: Folks tell us "It doesn't work on Safari. so we keep having to do it this way."

John: Maybe we could set an aggressive timeline and I could convince people.

Mike: Deployment concerns.

John: Great. I'll take this back and discuss opening up the secure context restriction for loopback, but set an aggressive timeline.

Titouan: Renaming PNA to "Local Network Access" due to "private"'s myriad of meanings.

### [Permissions Policy](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Permissions_Policy)

Ian: [Presenting](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1yLu8sQg-oY1bgtiBbAiSONKYbmU57tByWKMXK5Ww4xY/edit?usp=sharing)

...: Reporting will only report on permission policy violations coming from _your_ page, not to delagates.

...: Want to get rid of `document.permissionsPolicy`, migrate towards Permissions API `.query()`.

...: Merging with Permissions API: w3c/permissions#410. Need a shared registry and support from the group.

...: Delegation and XSS mitigation. Delegation allows an embedder to trust its embedees with specific permissions, and allows us to simplify permission prompts. Unfortunately, injection attacks are still a thing. And it's possible that sites that really lock down script execution, but `<iframe allow="camera, microphone">` might still be injectable, which would throw those capabilities out to the attacker.

...: Thinking about some mitigations: double-keying delegated permissions (makes the prompt weird), make delegated permissions ephemeral, CSP-style `nonce` tokens in the header need to be mirrored on the element.

dveditz: Is there more detail around these possibilities? GitHub link or something to be more concrete?

Ian: Can put something together and send it out in a more concrete form.

Abdul: My vote is for double-keying. `google.com` might want to give the permission to `whatever.com`, that should be its own entry. One prompt won't be a big deal, but will block attackers.

Ian: That might necessitate exposing the origin of the frame to the user, which I'm hoping wouldn't push site owners to other ways of passing data/capability that avoid explicit delegation.

Artur: Similar to Abdul. I also like this approach, but usable permissions folks will tell you that users don't understand double-keyed prompts. Will need to convince them of the value of showing two origins. But: `nonce`. I like it, I think it works for CSP fairly well, but it wouldn't be on by default. Developer would need to enable it. Already an affordance for that: could have an empty value for the policy header, or restrict `<iframe>` through CSP.

Ian: Right. Is making that possible worth the effort even if not default.

Artur: Double-keying would be easier to address from the developer's point of view. They don't have to make any change.

Bartosz: Talking about this at Meta, we'd rely on the reporting API. Will this be origin trialed? What kind of information do you think will be available in the report?

Ian: Spec mentions what's in the report. Date/time, URL of offending page, feature that caused violation. Don't know if we'd do an origin trial unless we thought there were things we could learn. Syntax, API shape, etc. But I think we'd likely just try to ship.

Bartosz: Version?

Ian: Not this quarter. Probably Q2.

Bartosz: Only reporting denials? Could also report attempted access?

Ian: Hard to do that in a way that doesn't divulge information about user behavior in third-party frames.

Artur: If worried about cross-origin information, would we report any delegation? That wouldn't tell the top-level developer what happened post-delegation, but could be useful to understand the scope of delegation.

### CSP Hashes ([w3c/webappsec-csp#574](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec-csp/issues/574))

Artur: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1wANdGweoM-Xlvu13_akMY6NwS3eZULTDZGrJlXkTZyk/edit

...: Idea is for CSP3 `unsafe-hashes` to allow allowlisting by the contents of the `src` attribute. Can allow event handlers and `javascript:` URLs today, this proposes expanding that a bit.

...: Following up on conversation at TPAC. We've convinced ourselves at Google that this minor change to CSP would be fairly useful from a deployment perspective. Looking for any objections from folks here that we should consider?

dveditz: Do we need to worry about letting sites know that `unsafe-hashes` would have this new behavior? How do we deal with back-compat for UAs that don't support the new bits and pieces?

Artur: UA sniffing. Have tried other approaches with things like `strict-dynamic`. Doesn't make as much sense here. We probably could do it, but it seems like more work than it's worth.

dveditz: what if there is also, or already an integrity attribute that is supposed to match a hash? Do we continue matching that hash and skip the 'unsafe-hashes' match on the src=? Do we try the src= match first? Do we require both the src= and integrity= to match hashes in the policy?  The motivation for extending unsafe-hashes was for sources that are mutable so in practice you wouldn't want to use both so maybe integrity wins if it exists?

Artur: but then an attacker could potentially inject a script tag with a known integrity hash without worrying about their src URL matching a hash.

dveditz: Like it in theory, not ready to sign off on the mechanism, need to talk more.

### `/.well-known/change-password`

(punting to February)

### planning the next call

please contribute ideas to:
https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/issues/618
