## WebAppSec WG

[Tuesday, May 18th: 18:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20210518T1800) (11:00 California, 14:00 Boston, 19:00 London, 20:00 Berlin)

### Attendees

* Mike West
* Wendy Seltzer
* Mike Smith
* Francis McCabe
* Giorgio Maone
* Abdulrahman Alqabandi
* Artur Janc
* Carlos IL
* Dan Veditz
* Sam Weiler
* Frederik Braun
* Jun Kokatsu
* Jeff Hodges
* You!


### Agenda

*   Sam Weiler has some pointers to conversation around Encrypted Client Hello (ECH, née ESNI). 

*   Francis McCabe would like to present thoughts on better integrating WASM and CSP.

*   [WebCrypto in our charter](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/pull/584)
    *   Interest in well-scoped additions (e.g. [ed25519](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/466), [UUID](https://github.com/WICG/uuid)). Other things on peoples' minds?

*   Odds and ends:
    *   Privacy CG face-to-face. https://github.com/privacycg/meetings/tree/main/2021/05-virtual
    *   Guidance documents: "Here's what you should do with all these mechanisms we've documented."
    *   Policy Container landed: https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/6504
    *   Credentiallessness: https://github.com/whatwg/html/issues/6637, https://github.com/whatwg/fetch/pull/1229, https://github.com/w3c/ServiceWorker/issues/1592
    *   Anonymous `<iframe>`: https://github.com/camillelamy/explainers/blob/master/anonymous_iframes.md 


### Minutes

#### Encrypted Client Hello

weiler: https://github.com/tlswg/draft-ietf-tls-esni. Hoping to turn this on early and widely to discourage censors who are aiming to block esni. GH wiki page has info about ECH interop https://github.com/tlswg/draft-ietf-tls-esni/wiki/Implementations

weiler: If you're working on a browser, and can turn on greased ECH, that would be helpful. Reach out to Steven Farrell for more info <stephen.farrell@cs.tcd.ie>.

#### WASM and CSP

[Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1JYyYsnENblAin1gAgBobzoBUu-wIIOrf5-9N9McR_oE/edit?usp=sharing)

mccabe: Presented to the WASM CG last week. Meta comment: this has had many hands over the years. Many of those hands aren't active in the community any longer. Tended to have limited priority. I picked this up in December, hoping to push it over the hill. Overall plan concocted with various stakeholders is that we'd do this in a unidirectional way: WASM CG would create a recommendation for the WebAppSec WG.

mccabe: Three parties involved. Publisher, user, and browser. WASM sandbox is security from the browser's viewpoint. Prevents compromise from WASM code. Allows browser to trust the WASM code, not that it does anything useful, but not to compromise the browser.

mccabe: CSP story is preventing browser from executing WASM code that the publisher didn't want to run. Publishers are very concerned about ensuring that only code they sanction shows up on the screen. Users want safe and effective environment.

mccabe: Recommendation at https://github.com/WebAssembly/content-security-policy/blob/master/proposals/CSP.md. Net of it is: `wasm-unsafe-eval` source expression. "unsafe" causes consternation, but can live with it. If this source is allowed, the page is allowed to compile and execute WASM. Not trying to do the more complicated approach of binding an origin to a response and to the bits it contains, but instead just blanked allowing evaluation.

mccabe: no CSP > `unsafe-eval` > `wasm-unsafe-eval` > `'self'`. Mostly implemented in Chromium for extensions and apps.

mccabe: Beyond `wasm-unsafe-eval`: treating WASM as a proper script type. Nonces, hashes, etc.

mccabe: How to reassure consumers that code is "safe and effective"?

mccabe: Within the WASM community, there's a proposal at stage 1 for `wasm-unsafe-eval`.

dveditz: The reason we use `unsafe-` in CSP currently is because an XSS is often an injection of unwanted bytes into the context of a page, or use of user data in the `eval()` case. That's what's considered unsafe. It may be that precompiled chunks of code aren't "unsafe" in the same way.

mccabe: I'm ok with "unsafe", personally. WASM's sandbox model is strictly weaker than the JavaScript model. The typical application has C++ code that's compiled to WASM. The sandbox says nothing about making that program safe. Buffer overflows, etc. As long as you're running C++, that's unsafe.

dveditz: Yes, it's unsafe in a different way than CSP meant. Unsafe from the creator's bugs. Not unsafe from injection, which is CSP's focus. Also: people will certainly want to be able to restrict the sources from which code is loaded.

mccabe: Module story in WASM is nascent. When that happens, we can start talking about WASM scripts, until then, we just have "inline JavaScript", XHR requests.

dveditz: I'm happy to see WASM coming under CSP. That's important. Thanks for the proposal.

jun: Why is `wasm-eval` necessary? Why does WASM require CSP?

mkwst: WASM is currently gated on `unsafe-eval`. This proposal aims to allow WASM without allowing `eval()`.

mccabe: There are things coming in WASM that have the smell of `eval()`. Similar capabilities. In particular, being able to assemble a working WASM application dynamically in the browser. We want to enable this. That means downloading modules, not in one big chunk, but in pieces stitched together dynamically. Not the same as evaluating a string. Another thing coming: JITing WASM.

jun: `wasm-unsafe-eval` is in a weird state. WASM doesn't allow access to network or DOM. Need to audit interface between the two. We don't restrict `postMessage()`. At the same time, wASM executes in-process. In terms of Spectre, it's bad. I don't want to tell developers that WASM is unsafe, but...

aaj: By analogy: untrusted data passed to eval leads to script execution in the context of the application. The question for WASM is, what's the equiv. threat when attacker-controlled data is compiled or streamed into a module. What's the worst that can happen?

mccabe: The sandbox model is a capability-based approach. It can only do things that are explicitly given to it. The bad data question boils down to a few possible attack vectors: the attacker could fool the instantiation to use its import, not the expected one. Another: a bug in the C++ code that the attacker knows about could be exploited. Attack surface is not the same as JavaScript.

jun: Similar to side-channel attacks. You have more resources, faster programming, more dynamic functionality. But no access to the network, DOM, more like a worker script. In-process, but has fewer capabilities.

mccabe: Different to JavaScript. Theoretical performance of WASM and JavaScript are not far apart. Spectre attacks are, in principle, executable from JS and WASM, but probably a little easier in WASM.

dveditz: If a page downloads chunks of WASM from two places and instantiates them separately, do they overlap?

mccabe: When you instantiate a module, you give it its imports.

dveditz: So an injection can't really attack its own data unless multiple streams are tacked together into a single module.

jun: "Unsafe" in CSP results in a bypass of CSP. `eval()` that's attacker-controlled will bypass CSP, etc. This is a little different. It will execute code, but the attacker's code is different. If WASM adds additional capability, "unsafe-" seems reasonable.

mkwst: Calling time here, more feedback at https://github.com/WebAssembly/content-security-policy/blob/master/proposals/CSP.md.


#### WebCrypto

https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/pull/584

mkwst: converstaions are happening about changes to WebCrypto, but the WebCrypto WG no longer exists. When it did exist WebCrypto conversations could get "exciting". We have a proposal to extend our charter to make limited additions and fixes to WebCrypto as a maintenance activity, not to open it up broadly.

...: are the folks engaged in this group interested in opening up the spec to this limited extent as part of our group. getUUID() for which there's already an implementation in Chrome. Also ciphers like ed25519. Streams would also be usefl to add to WebCrypto since those naturally arise in a web context. Comments or thoughts?

dveditz: Some Mozilla folks were nervous about opening this up broadly. Cautiously accepting the limited scope as described in Daniel's mail.

wseltzer: From the W3C team perspective, we want to maintain specs we've published. Looking for the right community to review proposals for change. Not aiming to open up entirley new areas of cryptographic development, but a narrow scope of additions and updates to the spec. Is this the right group to review and integrate those?

mkwst: I've seen in the PRs Daniel linked to that there were reviews from Anne V from Mozilla and Ryan Sleevi, but for this to work we need broader support.

smith: We need review from domain experts. Another thing is the general principle that Daniel expressed in his message: he said the biggest need is to modernize the set of algorithms, move to more secure curves. It seems imprudent over the long term to have a frozen set of algorithms and curves as part of the platform. It seems that it's necessary to maintain this piece of the platform. As mkwst pointed out, though, we need interest from implementers. Code in the browsers that's not actively maintained. I hope this can help get some focus paid to this; it's in the platform, and we shouldn't be neglecting it.

mkwst: It's important to support Daniel's work if we want volunteers to do the work. My suggestion is to incubate ideas elsewhere and then adopt specific proposals into this group that have broad approval and implmentor interest. The proposed change to the charter appears to describe this approach.

mkwst: we'll take the conversation back to the PR and get a set of words that say what we mean.

#### Odds and Ends

mkwst: privacy CG Face to Face.

weiler: agenda linked from the top here, 

mkwst: Policy Container landed in Chrome, already includes CSP, will soon include Referrer-Policy, encourage people to check it out

mkwst: also there's a Crediallessness proposal and a frame isolation proposal that aim to solve interesting problems. Please leave feedback.
