**Next meeting is [Tuesday, September 21st: 18:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20210921T1800) (11:00 California, 14:00 Boston, 19:00 London, 20:00 Berlin)**

Call-in details at https://www.w3.org/2011/webappsec/webex.html

## WebAppSec WG for September 21, 2021


### Attendees

* _tiffany atkins_
* Jun Kokatsu
* Giorgio Maone
* Krzysztof Kotowicz
* Artur Janc
* Frederik Braun (Mozilla)
* Dan Veditz (co-chair, Mozilla)
* Jeff Hodges
* Mike West
* Wendy Seltzer (W3C)
* Sam Weiler (W3C)
* ?? several others on zoom we didn't catch



[minutes of the previous meeting](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/blob/main/meetings/2021/2021-08-17-minutes.md)

### Agenda

* Mike West would like to mention that Chromium plans to enable `COEP: credentialless`:
  * explainer: https://github.com/WICG/credentiallessness/blob/main/explainer.md
  * spec: https://wicg.github.io/credentiallessness/
  * PR:
    * https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/6638
    * https://github.com/whatwg/fetch/pull/1229

* WASM and CSP (Francis)
  * `unsafe-eval`, `unsafe-inline`, etc.
  
* Sanitizer API (Freddy)

* Charter (Artur)

* TPAC 2021 (virtual again)
  * Breakout meetings October 18-22 (our normally scheduled WG mtg is the 19th)
  * Group and joint meetings Oct 25-29
  * WebExtensions Community Group would like to meet with us
  * What other groups should we hold joint meetings with?
  * When?
    * Registration opens Monday, September 20


### Minutes

#### Chrome enabling COEP: credentialless

mkwst: reviewing rationale in [explainer](https://github.com/WICG/credentiallessness/blob/main/explainer.md) chromium planning to enable COEP in M96 (currently tip of tree). Has positive feedback from folks at Mozilla including AnneVK. This is going to be positive in terms of deployability of "require CORP"

aaj: For features like credentialless, the value is in multi-vendor support. If they rely on `credentialless`, and it only works in one browser, it's much less valuable than when it works everywhere. This hinges on multi-vendor support more than some features which progressively enhance.

freddy: Security concerns around ORB and Private Network Access. Already discussed in the issues.

Mike: [Private network access](https://wicg.github.io/private-network-access/) in WICG; talked about here 4-5 years ago.  some agreement on it - allowing access to things on more-private nets w/o opt-ins.  Should be adopt it?  Chromium is working on it.  Planning to ship a secure context restriction in ~94.  Active design and prototype of preflight of private network access.  Seems to be implementable.  If it would be useful to adopt, could and perhaps should?
 Re: ORB, agree something like it is necessary.  Chromium is shipping CORB which is different but better than nothing.  Need more discussion of "is ORB shippable", but that's for Fetch.  This set of people good to discuss.  

#### WASM and CSP:  `unsafe-eval`, `unsafe-inline`, etc.

Francis: Recently we're busy preparing the PR to add `wasm-unsafe-eval` to the CSP spec. Questions around `unsafe-eval`. Personally, my understanding was that `unsafe-eval` allows WASM evaluation, and the idea was that going forward, we'd encourage folks to use `wasm-unsafe-eval` instead, as the latter (former?) is riskier. Currently, there's no text in the PR against the spec that mentions the use of `unsafe-eval` for WASM. Also, this is only implemented in Chrome, not in Firefox. Don't know the state of Safari. Q: Do we add `wasm-unsafe-eval` to the spec, or not? Also, `unsafe-inline`? Has an effect in Chrome.

...: `wasm-unsafe-eval`: Chrome will need to figure out what to do about extensions, not the spec. Question around what to do with `unsafe-eval`.

Mike: In my opinion, `wasm-unsafe-eval` is a subset of `unsafe-eval`. `unsafe-eval` should enable both `eval()` and WASM. `wasm-unsafe-eval` should enable WASM but not `eval()`.

Mike: Chromium enabled `wasm-eval` that's applicable to extensions and enables wasm for them.  Now need to "move" `wasm-eval` over to `wasm-unsafe-eval`

DanV: FF needs to align with what chromium ends up doing (they've done something different?).  unfortunate this was done without addressing/considering the security concerns (Dan please correct)

Francis: To be clear: `unsafe-inline` should have no impact on WASM? `wasm-unsafe-eval` and `unsafe-eval` should enable WASM. `wasm-unsafe-eval` should enable only WASM, not `eval()`.

Danv: That's my understanding.

Francis: The `unsafe-eval` bit is odd. If we mention that in the spec, we're baking it in forever. If we think it's inappropriate for `unsafe-eval` to govern WASM, then we should not mention it in the spec.

(discussion/speculation wrt which is more risky: unsafe-eval or wasm-unsafe-eval...?)

Artur: perhaps unsafe-eval ought to just enable WASM ?

Francis: but FF works differently than Chrome in that respect?  chronme will likely keep `unsafe-eval` around to enable WASM, but then FF needs to do work to match Chromium...  I can modify the spec to state this, just seems slightly odd. nothing in spec presently about enabling WASM, so both FF & Cr need to do somnething wrt what we put in the spec.

JunK: put in github issue and then we can discuss...

Francis: am still confused and unsure what to do.  thinks Safari & FF ought to impl `wasm-unsafe-eval`

Mike: are you saying that `wasm-unsafe-eval` ought to enable WASM on its own, `unsafe-eval` iought niot be relevant.  and FF & Safari ought to impl to this ...?

Francis: yes

Mike: (describes another slight variation)  ...tho that seems like it'd be more work...

JunK: need to account for web devs need to do work to adopt...

Mike: landing the patch that defines `wasm-unsafe-eval` seems fine.  the unclear portion seems to be the interaction if any with `unsafe-eval` -- we can create issue for that and discuss further there

Francis: ok, will do that.  land PR as-is and raise issue.


#### [Sanitizer API](https://wicg.github.io/sanitizer-api/)

Freddy: Tiny comment: We're approaching a certain level of interop between Chromium and Gecko. We don't think we'll significantly change the shape of the API, and are looking for feedback.

...: Latest API shape: We've noticed some exciting complexity around HTML parsing. We now require a context for the parser: parsing HTML, according to the spec, is really two modes: parsing a document, or parsing a document fragment. When doing the latter, you need to invoke the parsing algorithm with a context element. HTML parsing is completely different inside a `<textarea>` and `<table>`. For various reasons around parser ambiguity, we can't hide this complexity from developers. So, we reached the conclusion that parsing needs to be contextual.

...: Suggesting to add a new `innerHTML` setter on the element: `setHTML()`. This implicitly sanitizes according to the defaults, or accepts a configured santizer to do the operation.

...: This is in Firefox Nightly, and Chrome M94 (behind a flag).

...: Other methods: sanitize `DocumentFragment`, and turn the `innerHTML` setter around: if you don't have an element, we can create the element and push the sanitized fragment into it via `sanitizeFor()`.

...: There's a spec. There's web platform tests. Implementations are converging.

...: We'd like feedback!

koto: For the testing: have you considered reaching out to the existing sanitizer libraries? Polyfills?

Freddy: We've been trying to implement a polyfill, with great help from Edward Qiu.

koto: You're polyfilling the API through DOM purify?

Freddy: We're implementing the polyfill for the sanitizer API surface, with DOMPurify under the hood.

mkwst: we had a conversation about adoption to this group, but heard concern from Anne about where it should live

Freddy: Anne's was not a strong objection. Just looking to make sure the integration with HTML happens, starts early enough, etc. I talked to Anne last week, we should find a subset of the spec that's right to upstream to HTML. Also concerns from Domenic.

mkwst: Let's resolve this in the next meeting.


#### Charter

Artur: We had a discussion about Trusted Types and the group charter. Was there followup? What's happening?

wendy: W3C in its process evolution is looking at how to move to a model that doesn't rely on The Director. Previously, objections were brought to Tim Berners-Lee after community conversation if there was no concensus. Now we're trying to move to a council model where elected representatives would review the objections and find resolution. That's a long way of saying that we didn't hear a clear group consensus in the TT discussion where the objector would agree they were satisfied and the rest of the group would also. We'll bring that, along with the other objection raised on the charter to the TAG AB council.

...: On the other pieces of the Mozilla objection, we think we did reach consensus to leave other elements out of explicit mention.

...: That request is being sent over to the council for consideration. We'll extend the current charter for as long as we need to to keep the group operating under that existing charter until that's resolved, which allows adoption of deliverables that are in scope.



#### TPAC 2021
* Registration opened today, Sept. 21
https://www.w3.org/2021/10/TPAC/

mkwst: if you have topics you'd like to discuss, groups we should meet with or specs to watch, please share (send mail to the public list).
