## WebAppSec WG

[Tuesday, June 15th: 18:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20210615T1800) (11:00 California, 14:00 Boston, 19:00 London, 20:00 Berlin)


### Attendees

* Arthur Sonzogni
* Abdulrahman Alqabandi
* Jun Kokatsu
* Giorgio Maone
* Sam Weiler
* John Wilander
* Wendy Seltzer
* Artur Janc
* Ian Clelland
* Frederik Braun
* Abdulrahman
* Antonio Sartori
* Dan Veditz
* Jeffrey Yasskin
* Mike West
* Magenish
* Liorm


### Minutes

  minutes of the previous meeting are at https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/blob/main/meetings/2021/2021-05-18-minutes.md

### Agenda

*   [Charter](https://www.w3.org/2021/06/webappsec-proposed-charter-2021.html)

*   Arthur Sonzogni would like to discuss the [`COEP: credentialless` proposal](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/mikewest/credentiallessness/blob/main/index.html)
    * https://github.com/whatwg/html/issues/6637
    * https://github.com/whatwg/fetch/pull/1229
    * https://github.com/w3c/ServiceWorker/issues/1592

*   JS Self-Profiling API and COI

*   FYI:
    *   [Half-Double](https://github.com/google/hammer-kit/blob/main/20210525_half_double.pdf)
    *   Chrome is locking `SharedArrayBuffer` behind cross-origin isolation in Chrome 92, following along behind Firefox which shipped this earlier in the year.
        * [An explainer from Anne](https://hacks.mozilla.org/2020/07/safely-reviving-shared-memory/) when this shipped in Firefox 79
        * Chrome's "heads up" announcement to developers: https://blog.chromium.org/2021/02/restriction-on-sharedarraybuffers.html
        * Android Chrome previously shipped this change in version 88
    *   More COI tidbits: [`[CrossOriginIsolated]`](https://heycam.github.io/webidl/#CrossOriginIsolated), `performance.now()` granularity, [JS self-profiling API](https://github.com/shhnjk/shhnjk.github.io/tree/main/investigations/js-self-profiling), iframe opt-ins for capturing pixels, etc.

* [Overriding CORS with permissions](https://github.com/w3c/strategy/issues/212)


#### Charter

sam: charter has been sent to the AC for voting. Still possible to make changes but ideally not.

wendy: If you'd like to please ask your AC rep to vote in favor of the charter that will help get it through the process


#### Credentialless

Proposed specification: https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/mikewest/credentiallessness/blob/main/index.html
Explainer: https://github.com/mikewest/credentiallessness/blob/main/explainer.md

arthur: `COEP: credentialless`. A new variant of COEP. Difficulties in COEP deployment. The problem: we have several features we'd like to gate behind cross-origin isolation (`SharedArrayBuffer`, etc.). These APIs all allow side-channel attacks like Spectre. To mitigate, we require `COOP: same-origin` and `COEP: require-corp`. This latter requirement forces all resources embedded by a given context to explicitly allow the embedding either via CORS or via `Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy`. This model is robust, as it's opt-in rather than opt-out, but it has deployment costs. You can't be cross-origin isolated until your dependencies opt-in. This turns out to be hard for some developers. So, we're looking for mechanisms to make this easier. COEP:credentialless is one of them.

arthur: Instead of requiring sites to explicitly opt-in, we will instead make the requests without credentials. The logic is that those responses will not bring new information to a potential attacker, as they could simply request the resources themselves. The only thing that makes the responses valuable are the cookies in the request, which allow personalization.

arthur: Authors can continue to send credentials, at the cost of shifting from `no-cors` to `cors` request and require an explicit opt-in via CORS check. Then the developer can choose whether to opt-into sending that data or not.

arthur: Concerns: 1. cookies aren't the only way to get personalized requests, 2. iframes.

arthur: 1. Taking advantage of a user's privileged network position might allow access to resources an attacker couldn't touch. IoT, etc. Private Network Access]() (nee CORS-RFC1918) is a proposed solution that would allow requests from public websites to private IP ranges only when explicitly opted-into via CORS. (Note: `datapass.de` and other pages that use IP addresses for ACLs are hard).
arthur: 1. Taking advantage of a user's privileged network position might allow access to resources an attacker couldn't touch. IoT, etc. Private Network Access](https://wicg.github.io/private-network-access/) (nee CORS-RFC1918) is a proposed solution that would allow requests from public websites to private IP ranges only when explicitly opted-into via CORS. (Note: `datapass.de` and other pages that use IP addresses for ACLs are hard).

arthur: 2. iframes are complicated! `COEP: credentialless` only deals with normal subresources. iframes were punted to <https://github.com/camillelamy/explainers/blob/master/anonymous_iframes.md>.

[freddy had a clarifying questions about `no-cors` and `omit` credentials mode] (Do I correctly understand that COEP: credentialless is a short-hand that ensures all fetches coming from my document are no-cors?)

wilander: Early in the anti-Spectre efforts, we mentioned that blocking 3p cookies helps, since attackers can't pull in personalized resources. That's in part why we went to full 3p cookie blocking.

arthur: That's totally true. That's why we support COI through this mechanism.

artur: Difference between cross-site and cross-origin in this context. COEP applies to cross-origin requests. Protection being offered via 3p cookies is insufficient.

mkwst: https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/582#issuecomment-768919036

jun: I was unsure how we would separate the contexts. Shared Workers, cache storage, etc. Anonymous frame, still has storage access, etc?

arthur: Sharing information between two documents, one with `COEP: credentialless` and one without? Similarly to `COEP: require-corp`, the CORP algorithm run again for CacheStorage and ServiceWorker. In COEP:credentialless mode, we require the reponse to have been requested without credentials or to have received an explicit opt-in from the server, either CORS or CORP. Should block responses with credentials from flowing to a doc that's credentialess.

abdulrahman: Regarding "credentials": Is this just cookies? Or things like JSESSION in request parameters. What other credentials exist?

arthur: "Credentials" include what Fetch considers credentials: cookies, client certs, etc. Not GET parameters.

dveditz: Only the things web standards know about, even if they're common frameworks.

arthur: Yes, if a malicious websites knows credentials to put in the URL, they'd get the data.

dveditz: There's a header sent to the site itself indicating it's a COOP request, right? If there is, then frameworks that don't use cookies could come up with a solution.

mkwst: Currently no Fetch Metadata header, but we could add one if it's valuable.

#### JS Self-Profiling API

jun: Perhaps JS Self-Profiling API doesn't actually require cross-origin isolation. I did some analysis: https://github.com/shhnjk/shhnjk.github.io/tree/main/investigations/js-self-profiling.

jun: 1. Does it provide a new precise time? 2. Does it give attackers new ability to get information that isn't currently exposed?

jun: For 1: the spec suggests that the only timer exposed will be limited to the same granularity as `performance.now()` (which is COI-restricted in granularity), so no concern here.

jun: For 2: This gives a mechanism to sample execution with a given interval. Looks at the stack every so often, records what's being executed. Existing mechanisms like overriding `fetch()` or XHR, built-in APIs are capable of doing the same thing. You can read more in the analysis linked above.

jun: So, this mechanism does give some insight into cross-origin script executing for more than 10ms. But you will not know which file, which line number, etc. You can do the same by overriding a commonly-used function to see when it's called, capture the stack.

jun: This API gives information about execution, but already available via `Error.stack`, which already provides similar information once CORS is enabled.

jun: This API helps track down performance issues in the client, but doesn't give new and unique information.

artur: Thanks for this analysis! I found this very interesting; it was a long discussion, but I appreciate the hard work. One followup: it would help, I think, to update the spec to capture the considerations you went through in this analysis. The potential surface for leaking this information for `no-cors` requests, what's possible today, what does the implementation of the API need to consider to ship these safely. My recollection is that the security/privacy section of the spec talks about these at a high level, and while Chromium's implementation might meet your bar, it would be helpful to ensure that others do too.

jun: Sounds good. I have contact with the Facebook folks editing the spec. I can follow up.

jun: Mozilla? Apple?

freddy: First time I've heard of this API. No standards position issue, that seems like the right next step. Technical reasoning seems sound.

wilander: Same.

jun: I'll ask the spec author to ask for positions.

dveditz: Status?

jun: In the WICG. Facebook deployed it via Chrome's Origin Trial. Implementation in Chromium.


#### [Overriding CORS with permissions](https://github.com/w3c/strategy/issues/212)

sam: This is something someone threw into the strategy pipeline last year. Wondering if they can use permissions. Is credentiallessness good enough?

dveditz: In many cases, they can already specify that requests are credentialless. But they might need the result of a personalized response. CORS, of course, gets in the way. "Permissions" makes me think that `maps.google.com` wants to talk to `youtube.com` to ensure that my video preferences are taken into account when finding resturaunts near me.

sam: Use case was RSS reader.

dveditz: If you don't need to log into the RSS feed, then that should probably be ok without credentials.

mkwst: this gets into the intersection between CORP and CORS. in Artur's ?? document he argued there is a distinction between those two. I am sympathetic that RSS readers/podcast that are fetching resource that "want" to be public, that just haven't made themselves available the official way the web has to signal publicness. Hard to honor that while also protecting sites that are not protecting themselves sufficiently.  Good to pushing: finding a way to make this work would unlock a couple of application types that would be nice. We need to solve the local-network problem though. Unlike CORP where you don't have direct access to the bits we can't just wait until later to solve that if we allow direct access to literal bits.

artur: wanted to +1 what Mike said and the scariness of this proposal. Credentiallessness could be a way to address this, only allowing indirect access to these resources rather than direct access. As Mike said this is still scary, but perhaps something like PWA with explicit user "installation" would be enough of a permission to let us be comfortable exposing something like this.

...: as currently phased this is super scary, but we may be able to figure something out.

sam: if we assume these things are public resources, who are we protecting by doing this? And given RSS readers that are already doing this, what are we protecting?

artur: I don't think we can assume these are public resources. There is a chance the way the web works today that the reesource isn't public, but carries "domain" cookies. The other issue is internal resources.

jun: normal RSS reader will strip out code/scripts. Browsers will fetch everything and run scripts/wasm, etc. Securing that is a much harder problem. The browser has to run any JS safely, and have it not affect/steal data from any other origin. Without CORS, by default we have no idea what "public" is -- the server might be checking IP addresses, corporate network login, or other out-of-band

sam: is the answer to "who are we protecting" the feed publisher?

artur: we are protecting all the other resources that could be leaked to the PWA. If we allow a site to request any resource without opt-in (cors) then that could be abused

mkwst: an ssh client boils down to exactly the capabilities wanted here -- connect to any site and read any resource. Could be cool to have a website that could implement an ssh client, right? But that is doing more than what a website allows. Some sort of "permission writ large" -- not just a yes/no, but something that is clear --


