
## WebAppSec WG 2021-10-19


### Attendees

* Jun Kokatsu
* Giorgio Maone
* Krzysztof Kotowicz
* Camille Lamy
* Frederik Braun (Mozilla)
* Artur Janc
* Dan Veditz
* Sam Weiler
* Sebastian Roth
* Lea Groeber
* Ben Stock
* Wendy Seltzer
* Mike West
* Antonio Sartori
* Artur Janc
* David Dworken
* Edward Qiu
* Greg ??
* Ian Clelland
* JeffH
* Jen Ozmen
* Aaron Shim


### Agenda

* Sebastian Roth, et al. will present "[12 Angry Developers: A Qualitative Study on Developers’ Struggles with CSP](https://swag.cispa.saarland/files/usecsp_preprint.pdf)": In our presentation, we will share some of our recent empirical analyses on the topic of CSP. This will cover a zoom into how even top sites struggle to initially deploy a CSP, understanding what technical roadblocks there are, and what our in-depth interview and coding study with 12 developers has uncovered. After that, we plan to discuss potential future directions for making CSP more meaningful to deploy.
[Slides of the Talk](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1seJ3KfGS11c6Nck_EeXuO3WH9c2HEDefrphFzV6kiuE/edit?usp=sharing)

* TPAC: Interesting breakouts and joint discussions.

Register for TPAC ASAP - some meeting coordinates will be in the TPAC event system, and there may be a delay between registering and getting access to that system.

https://www.w3.org/2021/10/TPAC/#participation

Breakout Week (18 October 2021 - 21 October 2021)

- Mon, 18 Oct Anti-Fraud for the Web 4:00 PM-5:00 PM UTC
- Tues, 19 Oct WebAppSec WG (at its normal time) 6:00 PM-7:00 PM UTC
- Wed, 20 Oct Cross-Device Security (caBLE)  2:00 PM-3:00 PM UTC
- Thurs, 21 Oct Upgrade Privacy Boundary Solely Defined by Registerable Domains  2:00 PM-3:00 PM UTC
- Thurs, 21 Oct The state of browser storage partitioning 3:00 PM-4:00 PM UTC
- Thurs, 21 Oct PING (at its normal time) 4:00 PM-5:00 PM UTC
- Fri, 22 Oct Federated ID  3:00 PM-4:00 PM UTC (** CHANGED)


Link for the full breakout week schedule: https://eur.cvent.me/d10rG

Joint Meetings Week (26 October 2021 - 29 October 2021)

- Tues, 26 Oct 1400-1500 UTC Machine Learning / PING joint mtg
- Tues, 26 Oct 1500 UTC EPUB / PING joint mtg
- Tues, 26 Oct 1530-1600 UTC Web Payments briefing on Privacy Sandbox
- Wed, 27 Oct, 1500-1600 HTC: Web Payments re: Frictionless flows
- Wed, 27 Oct, 2300-2359 UTC Web Advertising BG (slot 1)
- Thurs, 28 Oct, 1400-1430 UTC: Web Payments PING review of SPC
- Thurs, 28 Oct, 1430-1500 UTC PING and Privacy CG updates for Web Pmt
- Thurs 28 Oct 1500-1600 UTC Web Advertising BG (slot 2)
- Fri, 29 Oct, 0500-0700 UTC Devices and Sensors WG privacy discussion
- Fri, 29 Oct, 1600-1700 Private Advertising Technology CG initial meeting




### Minutes

mkwst: welcome. today we hae some special guests to present their paper, which will hopefully help us improve CSP in the future

benstock: Introducing conversation around not one, but three(!!!) papers. Introducing CISPA. Sebastian Roth, Lea Groeber, authored a few papers together on technical and usability concerns with mitigations this group has produced. Want to present condensed version of findings.

...: CSP has gone through a few iterations. Nonces in L2, `strict-dynanmic` in L3. We looked into HTTP Archive to figure out how many sites were using CSP at a certain time, at a certain level. Initial graph looks encouraging! But, not quite. Of the domains we looked at, only ~400 were using CSP for XSS mitigation, and the majority of those policies are unsafe (`unsafe-inline`, `http:`, `data:`). After 2017, the number of "safe" sites doesn't really grow.

...: AirBNB is a good case study. They have an interest in securing their sites, `script-src` in a report-only policy in 2014-11. 2015--3, they added `https:`. In 2015-05, they dropped `script-src` down to 5 entries (one of which was HTTP). 2017-12, 222 changes later, they had 32 entries.

...: 2018-01 they tried to harden, in 2018-03 they landed on a reasonably secure CSP.

...: A motivated company needed 3.5 years to deploy a non-trivially bypassable CSP. Lots of sites tried `report-only` but never enforced. CSP is hard!

...: Also ran a survey: "Do you believe CSP is a viable option to mitigate XSS?" 30 said yes. "Can you deploy CSP today?" 26 say no.

...: NDSS '21 paper focused on 3rd party dependencies. 12-week experiment on top 10,000 sites. One crawl each week to collect included parries. 8,000 sites with JavaScript. After 12 weeks, 1500 of those sites were still adding third-parties. Hard to maintain a CSP with an allowlist!

...: But we don't need an allowlist! We have `strict-dynamic`! But you can't use it if you require `unsafe-inline`. Turns out, there are a substantial number of third-parties that require `unsafe-inline` (usually for event handlers).

...: But maybe this is all ads? Just find better ads? Unfortunately no, many pages are blocked by multiple parties.

Lea: Small # of sites deploy CSP. Often use insecure directives. Long and difficult deployment process. But why? Let's shift from the technical perspective to the human perspective.

...: Be careful not to generalize your own expert knowledge to developers in general. We tried to investigate and generate evidence about how folks are using CSP in the wild. Our hope is that this evidence can inform future directions.

...: People don't have homogenous knowledge: CSP is complex. Knowledge gaps. Conceptual issues. Rely on built-in security features in frameworks. Security is second goal.

...: Developers search for information online. These sources may be misleading. Stack Overflow might suggest `unsafe-inline`, but there's generally a lack of bigger-picture insights about the different directives and their roles.

...: Applications: roadblocks depend upon the application's lifecycle. If you deploy CSP from the start, no problems! But a living, breathing application needs to be reworked in order to support CSP.

...: Developers come in teams. Different teams will have different priorities and working modes. Frontend team might need a specific library, CSP might block it, breaking the site.

...: And, of course, third-party dependencies flow in here as well.

...: Browser inconsistencies. Participants struggled with interoperability, console message differences, false positives, extensions, etc.

Sebastian: Not a single point of failure that needs to be fixed. Multiple entities that contribute to CSP's failure. Political, technical, and developer-centric approaches to improvements.

...: Political: Web API Restriction. Only give sites access to new browser APIs under certain security preconditions. Con: This puts the pressure more on the websites' operator. Third-party services cause problems here. Pro: This indirectly forces compliance with features like CSP as users are driven away from non-compliant services. Not clear that indirect pressure is enough here. Also, this won't interfere with existing Browser implementations and Web application since only new Features / API levels would require e.g. a sane CSP.

...: Technical: DOM Compartmentalization. Execute third-parties in different security contexts than the main site (e.g. by automatically moving third-party script and the elements they access into sandboxed iframes).

...: Con: Engineering effort. Might break some third-parties. For example, ads only detect ad as seen if they get mouse movements or clicks, which wouldn't be sent to frames.

...: Developer: Include developers in development of new features and provide better information sources and tools for them.

...: Better understanding of the concepts, fewer configuration mistakes.

...: This requires engineering effort to develop tools. Which leads to faster adoption of security features.

...: Should emerge explanations / concepts together with developers to find problems / issues during the design phase rather than fixing security mechanisms with new versions / levels.

...: Finding participants is hard! We found this in our study as well.

...: CSP can be a huge deployment cost. Caused by first-party code, but more often by third-parties. More roadblocks in developer-facing story. Approaches to tackling these problems might have downsides, would love to discuss.


Dan: [Artur: yes](https://mikewest.github.io/artur-yes/) exists and aims to simplify configuration of CSP. 

ben: XFO is very simple, and people send `XFO: ALLOW-ALL` which is a no-op, right? CSP is more complicated, and the preceived complexity is way higher than XFO. Might be better to have more headers, each controlling a simple thing.

Lea: Even if we could magically solve the usability, you still have issues with third-parties. If you arrive at that point, usability won't help. It's out of your control.

mkwst: https://wicg.github.io/csp-next/scripting-policy.html

koto: I unfortunately think that any amount of scripting restrictions has some irreducable complexity. All of the knobs in CSP (mostly around `script-src`) are there because CSP is hard to adopt. Nonces, `unsafe-*`, `strict-dynamic` all attempt to address the problem your research highlights. It's difficult to adopt restrictions, so I need to configure it to match my site. Unless developers are willing to commit to secure practices (for example, removing `eval()`), it's going to be a complicated mitigation story. I don't see an easy way out of this. Of course, ideas like Trusted Types encourage developers to change their code, but it's hard to imagine a single-header solution.

ben: Compelling argument! That said, it's not like we just add usability to CSP and it works. Or just fix third-parties and it works. It's a holistic story. Whatever the problem, complexity, not understanding, parties, etc. 90% of sites have deployed a CSP that doesn't help. Might be better just not to do it rather than pretending that the site is secure. The CSP on `sap.com` has been insecure for years!

...: We should make it more accessibile to first-parties, and give third-parties better incentives to play along.

koto: I agree, but thankfully even the current shape of CSP (the way we're using it in Google) uses the nonce-only policy. It's simple. And then trusted types to cover DOM XSS, which is also simple in terms of the characters added to your CSP. We can sim at recommending documentation around "CSP The Good Parts", but I'm worried that a hardened CSP is just going to be a high bar for sites at large. For me personally, no problem. CSP isn't for everyone. XSS will happen in the long tail because they won't rewrite their code to avoid it. But one header or a new header, somewhat irrelevant.

ben: Provocation! 5 years ago, we wouldn't have said that every site needs HTTPS! But we say that today! Let's Encrypt made it possible. Today, CSP is for the 0.01% of sites. But I'd like to get to a point where we can mitigate this problem more broadly. We should not just figure out what the top sites need to be secure, but what all sites need.

Lea: I get looking to Google, because Google is its own third-party. But it's a different issue on the wider web. Tooling, providing information sources, there's still a lot of room for improvement.

artur: The problems you're pointing to are real. There's no question about the complexity, and the third-party issue. I wonder, however, whether we should reevaluate our success criteria. When we initially thought about CSP, we thought most sites should have it. However, I think there are orders of magnitude between sites with authenticated user data, and sites in the long tail. Research years ago about CSP's failure because only X% of sites deploy it. But if those X% of sites are the ones with your data, then it's a huge success to get CSP deployed there. Call for different metrics than raw number of sites: let's consider the exploitation economics of XSS. Authenticated user data with a small number of users, it's unlikely that attackers will see it as a valuable target. Fundamental difference between unsafe transport and unsafe CSP. Very different model, and risk. Might be reasonable to expect less usage.

jun: Edge is trying to force Strict CSP and Trusted Types for any Microsoft site embedded in Edge's UI via Embedded Enforcement. Even existing websites can do this without browser enforcement. Can enforce security assurances on embedees that block rendering if they're not met.

Ben: I think we're aligned here. If you're a first-party using an ad network that doesn't support CSP, you can change, but that doesn't matter in isolation. It matters at scale! Change the incentives for third-parties.

...: It's great to be here, talking to y'all! The scripting policy proposal is a good way, but we should take care to properly evaluate this. Assuming we want a mechanism that's more widely used, we should understand the usability. Incredibly important. Best intentions at heart when designing such a mechanism, but need to evaluate proposals against developer needs. What are the potential roadblocks we didn't see?

Sebastian: I did the interviews. I had the feeling that information sources are a big problem. Of course, nonces are the way to go if you want to allowlist something, but people searching online will take one of the first examples, which were always allow-listing the entire domain listed in a console error. We should work on improving these sources. Example of a map: if you want to deploy CSP, which questions should you ask yourself. Having those information sources would improve the journey!

Wendy: Thank you for sharing this work! If there are things that we as a standards group can do, let us know! We want to encourage good research!

Sebastian: Finding participants for studies is hard. If folks could help us with recruitment, retweeting calls for participation, etc. Would be great to get more and better participation.

Joshua: What policies can industry players enact so that most players can enact CSP?

Ben: Arguably, there's little-to-no reason to enable `unsafe-inline`. Industry should ensure that embedded services are compliant with reasonable policies.

Sam: For TPAC: please register. You might not be able to get in otherwise. One error in an email I sent earlier: the Federated Identity group moved to a different slot.

