# WebAppSec WG

_Minutes for 2021-02-16 are at <https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/blob/main/meetings/2021/2021-02-16-minutes.md>._

**Next meeting is [Tuesday, April 20th: 18:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20210420T1800) (11:00 California, 14:00 Boston, 19:00 London, 20:00 Berlin)**


## Attendees

* Sam Weiler, W3C/MIT
* Wendy Seltzer, W3C
* Mike Smith
* Dan Veditz
* Jeff Hodges
* Mike West
* Camille Lamy
* Carlos IL
* Tim Cappalli
* Stephen Röttger
* paris
* John Wilander
* Abdulrahman Alqabandi
* Ionuț Ambrosie
* Terri Oda
* Giorgio Maone


### Agenda

*   Spectre & Post-Spectre: Last week was busy.
    *   <https://leaky.page/> (Stephen Röttger)
    *   <https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-post-spectre-webdev/> (Mike West)

mkwst: Stephen Röttger is here to talk about his paper. we've also adopted a Note that recommends best practices in web development.

stephen: [Presenting slides] https://leaky.page/ Core question: "How bad is Spectre?" Let me write an exploit, then we'll know for sure. We were aware of the research, but easier to believe if we see it with our own eyes.

...: Spectre: the CPU speculates, and does what the attacker wants. Bounce checks on arrays, etc, lead to speculation, which leads to differences in timing, which leads to side-channels.

...: If something happens during speculation, the CPU will notice the mistake, and rollback. You don't get the output of those calculations. But, rolling back won't roll back the entire state. Side channels.

...: You can check whether memory was cached or not. Need a good timer.

...: [Explaining PoC and clever bits of caching nuance] Slides at <https://drive.google.com/file/d/10tGmQvNQb5EGRG_ZjZ_z2waNQRaf4Iz5/view>


mkwst: W3C just published FPWD of [post-spectre-webdev note](https://www.w3.org/TR/post-spectre-webdev/). If you're interested in these issues, please file bugs on that doc, e.g., developer recommendations and mitigations: https://github.com/w3c/webappsec-post-spectre-webdev/issues/ 


*   Charter:
    *   Process questions around "living" specifications, and our existing publications.
    *   MIX -> MIX2?
    *   CSP2 -> CSP3?

mkwst: a couple of questions that came up about rechartering. First about "living" spec, where the process is more like the WHATWG where things are updated over time rather than specific defined "levels". What do we do with specs that already have a defined level, like "CSP2" moving to a "living" version of CSP?

dveditz: A few issues: 1. When should we switch to a living model? 2. What would we do with existing docs?

...: Not worried at all about 2. We can come up with solutions.

mkwst: agreed. we talked about this at previous TPACs but it was more theoretical because there didn't seem to be a way to do it in W3C. Now there is!

wseltzer: yes, the patent policy, in particular, has been updated to allow this to happen. A question that arose, we have said things like "the W3C Recommendation is \<some stable thing\>". People would look at things like "CSP1" is a Recommendation, and think should we use that version rather than some "in process" thing? 
  
...: even with this model we can bring snapshots to a "Recommendation" state to satisfy some of these desires if it proves to be useful.
  
mkwst: if we as a group wanted to do that, what would we have to do, where, to make that happen? is it part of the charter? if there some mechanism the group uses (CfC or similar?) to make it happen per spec?

wseltzer: there some wording we can put in the charter, but then more detail goes into the individual specs.

mkwst: probably good for us to send something to the group via the list; chairs will coordinate
... some things fall out of that regarding existing specs
  

mikesmith: Challenges with the current model. Developers look at CSP2, for instance, and implement from that, rather than CSP3. So we should make some decision about how to indicate on the CSP2 spec that it's not a target for implementers to work from, apart from developers.
  
...: Relatedly, the current CSP spec was out of sync with the editor's draft. We've fixed that problem with auto-publication tooling that grabs GitHub changes and generates new Working Drafts as well.
  
...: One limitation: only one update a day. The TR version will be out of sync by one day if multiple changes land. So there's still value in pointing to the ED, but updating the WD remains important.
  
...: MIX. We'd need to remove at least one feature from the spec to get it to REC. That might be worth doing for reflection of what's already shipped cross-browser.
  
https://github.com/w3c/webappsec-mixed-content/pull/49

mkwst: important question whether other browser vendors support the changes in 2d gen Mixed Content, with respect to upgrades of certain types of content. If other browsers are shipping/plan to ship, makes sense to take back to draft and move it forward again. If other vendors aren't planning updates, then it makes sense to ship the current CR as status quo ante, and take Mix 2 forward as others adopt.

dveditz: We have some upgrades in nightly, working towards shipment. 

wilander: long journey. Recall saying we didn't want to upgrade scripts to change existing behavior. Do we have a succint summary of changes: "we're upgrading these things; blocking those" then I could come back with clearer response

carlos: I could prepare such a document

wilander: thank you. 

mkwst: then it makes sense to take Mix back to WD, and iterate on L2 going forward. Take back to the list. 

weiler: add a status note?

mkwst: what currently lives at /TR/mixed-content/ should eventually point to L2. 

mikesmith: we should aim to get the question to the group and a recorded consensus.
... we have [other specs currently at CR](https://www.w3.org/TR/?tag=security&status=cr) that we should review as well. Referrer Policy, Secure Contexts, Upgrade Insecure Requests as well as Mixed Content.  Opportunity costs of dealing with out-of-date material. 

mkwst: Unfortunately, the difference with other CRs is that someone's actively working on. Secure Contexts is probably not a hard lift. UIR isn't in active work. Reasonable for us to take away from here: get Mixed Content done. For Referrer Policy, perhaps we can ask Dominic Farolino, who's done some work on the ED, to help with publishing.

... meeting is over time. Dan and I will work on Mixed Content next steps. 
