## WebAppSec WG

Attendees:
* Dan Veditz
* Mike West
* Sam Weiler
* Frederik Braun
* Giorgio Maone
* Camille Lamy
* Jeff Hodges
* Jun Kokatsu (Microsoft)
* Wendy Seltzer (W3C)
* Yoav Weiss
* Artur Janc
* Abdulrahman Alqabandi (Microsoft)
* Ian Clelland
* Arthur Sonzogni
* Ángel González
* Antonio Sartori

[Tuesday, January 19th: 19:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20210119T1900) (11:00 California, 14:00 Boston, 19:00 London, 20:00 Berlin)

### Minutes

#### Cross-Origin Isolatedness with Artur

([Google doc (with comment access)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1JBUaX1xSOZRxBk5bRNZWgnzyJoCQC52TIRokACBSmGc/edit), or [PDF (easier to read)](https://arturjanc.com/coi-threat-model.pdf))

mkwst: Artur has written a document to help understand what it means for an origin to be cross-site, what it means for resources to be loaded in cross-site context.

artur: Long story short, cross-origin isolation. There's a lot of context in the doc shared on the list, I won't rehash all of it. It's long. I'll assume that if you're dialed in, you're one of the few folks who will find the doc interesting, and I strongly encourage you to leave feedback!

...: The problem: Spectre. CPU-level vulnerabilities => web security model is broken. Normally not possible for an embedder to directly read the content of a loaded resource without opt-in (CORS). Spectre undermines this promise, as an attacker can use side-channels to read the contents of their process' memory. Attacker can access the resource despite the web security model.

...: Over a dozen Spectre-like variants. Less hope than when we started that they can be fixed at an underlying level.Cross-origin isolation aims to allow developers to use APIs that would allow them to exploit Spectre and read resources, but do so safely. High-resolution timers, for instance. In exchange for access to these APIs, you have to opt-into a set of restrictions that the browser enforces on your documen t that make it difficult to steal data cross-origin.

...: Cross-origin opener policy + cross-origin embedder policy => cross-origin isolation + access to these APIs. These policies work in complementary ways. COOP breaks relationships between your window and those that opened you or that you opened. COEP enforces restrictions on the resources you load into your document. If you set COEP, the browser will only permit you to load resources that explicitly opt-in or that are "safe to load".

...: The doc explores what it means for a resource to opt-into being loadable by cross-origin isolated environments. Subresources and iframes are different. Read the doc for the latter, I'll focus here on the former.

...: The question is how a resource can opt-into being loaded into a COI environment. Currently two ways, hopefully three in the future.

1. CORS opts-into being readable. Works for COI too.
2. Cross-origin resource policy. Works kinda like XFO for subresources, but only for `no-cors` subresources.
3. Mike has an interesting doc about credentiallessness, which suppresses credentials for subresource requests, meaning they can't be personalized and are therefore simpler to reason about.

...: CORP as an opt-in to be loaded by a COI document. The actual behavior is quite clear: if you set your image to be `CORP: cross-origin`, then a COI doc can load that image. They can embed it, and potentially read it from their memory. Behavior is straightforward. Conceptual difficulty is the developer-facing meaning.

...: Either, `CORP: cross-origin` means the embedder can read the resource, or the resource is only embeddable, and not readable. The difficulty with the latter is that it isn't true, fundamentally. Loading into a COI context means that the resource is subject to Spectre, et al. It's readable by the embedder. On the other hand, if we accept the former interpretation, there's another difficulty: we've created an alternative to CORS that has the same effect. CORS lets you fully expose a resource to a cross-origin embedder. So we've just recreated it with slightly different semantics.

...: I think this is solvable, but it introduces complexity. Doc goes into detail.

...: If CORP implies legibility, why don't we get rid of it, and require CORS for everything? They're similar, right? Problem is that this forces developers to use CORS on every cross-origin-loadable resource. Every image, script, other kinds of resources. This, as a side-effect, will make the resources directly readable by web-level APIs. Forces over-sharing.

...: Another consequence is that it requires requestors to load the resource in CORS mode, which not every resource provider supports.

...: This is the problem setup. I'll skip all the reasoning in the doc, and jump right to proposals/takeaways.

1.  We should treat CORP as implying legibility in practice. CORP: cross-origin should imply that the embedder can read it. That said, we shouldn't allow web-level APIs to directly read its contents. Can be attacked, but not directly exposed. If direct exposure is good, resource should use CORS. So, not legibility at the web level, but:

2.  CORP is a very good opt-in for sharing metadata with the embedder. Good and compelling reasons to expose metadata: size, dimensions, other metadata. This is a compromise between not exposing anything, and fully exposing the content of the resource.

3.  COI should become the web's default. We want reasources loaded cross-origin to opt-in (or to guarantee they're safe by stripping cookies, etc). CORP as an opt-in to share metadata gets us closer to that world. Providers of resources (CDNs, widgets, etc) can allow loading into COI contexts without requiring developers to switch these loads to CORS. Will keep the current model of allowing `no-cors` embeddability, with some metadata, but not all the content.

...: Nuance!

jun: Why CORP instead of credentialless mode.

artur: Historically, credentiallessness mode exposes resources that may use mechanisms other than cookies for authentication. Local router interface, for example. Some concerns with credentiallessness. CORP, as an explicit opt-in, was easier to justify. Local network addresses, etc. However, I see these three modes as complementary. I'd like resources to be able to use CORS, or CORP, or to allow itself to be requested without credentials. Leave it up to the embedder and resource provider to decide which mechanism is best for them.

jun: I think CORP seems like a good short-term goal. By default, credentiallessness seems better. Web developer will not have enough idea of Spectre, and won't understand the mechanism. Pentester will require CORP, but not everyone should actually use it. If we change the default, credentiallessness seems like the right direction. CORS seems easier to reason about.

freddy: Do we see CORP and CORS as being that different regarding deployment across big websites? We require CORS for subresource integrity. That seemed reasonable! Seemed reasonable to convince CDNs to do so. Different from your experience?

mkwst: deploying CORP expensive for sites

artur: Main issue with CORS rather than CORP in this context is that it requires refactoring not just resources but callers of that resource. If CORS is the only opt-in, I need to change my markup, and the provider needs to opt-in as well. Onus is on both. CORP puts the onus on the resource provider. Fewer providers than requesters.

mkwst: is the 'SRI hash of content' itself content or metadata? 

freddy: Artur is convincing. Easier to demand that CDNs change their policy than that everyone change their markup. Is this, however, an enforcable security boundary? Quite viable exploits that suggest the boundary is weak. Attacks only get better, etc.

artur: Happy we're having this discussion! It is subjective and fuzzy. Because attacks get better, and because CORP means that resources are readable, the line between web-level content APIs and metadata is less a security boundary, and more a conceptual line. For example: images. Perhaps in the future cross-origin images could be rendered in a separate process (GPU magic goes here). In that world, the image isn't readable by a Spectre-attacker. Even in that world, dimensions will still leak. Timing might still leak. The security model says we ought to expose the entire contents at the web level, but I don't think we  want to.

freddy: We're hoping to lock things down further in the future, so we shouldn't commit to saying that CORP-enabled loads are fair game? I'm not entirely convinced. will read the doc and get back to you.

artur: We don't need to use CORP to expose things about no-cors requests. But we have use cases that really want access to that metadata. Memory use, network budget. Size metadata really helps! Good use cases! We can serve that use case with only metadata

mike: Throws Yoav under a bus.

yoav: Hole in the data we report around transfer sizes. What kind of data are websites consuming in practice? Transfer-size attribute on resource Timing, enabled by Timing-Allow-Origin. Will also expose for CORS-enabled resources. Would like to expose for CORP as well. Making CORP the default for non-credentialed resources that can be embedded into other contexts will allow websites to have a more-complete picture of the consumption of the resource they include. Costs delegated to users.

mkwst: More busses. More throwing.

yoav: Memory measurement API exposes the sizes of resources implicitly. CORP is a good opt-in for this metadata. Will enable those websites to understand the memory they consume, and the memory their iframes consume. Will only be relevant for iframes in the same process. Highly-variant based on browser archicheture. This bit is tricky! Something to discuss once we reach agreeement on the subresource case, which is simpler. Frames are hard from a compatibility perspective. How does it interact with process isolation?

...: Another API planning to rely on CORP/COI: JavaScript profiling API will expose even more metadata about embeddable script resources. Another thing to consider whether this is the right opt-in for that or not.

...: One more point: "Why not just CORS?" CORS requires a front-end opt-in by the embedder, and in some cases there isn't such an opt-in. Images loaded from CSS, for instance: no way to enable CORS.

mkwst: is the 'SRI hash of content' itself content or metadata?  Can we apply SRI to all resources in a COI context? Might just be a detail for Artur to discuss in his COI doc. because hash is not reversible, perhaps it's ok to be metadata?

artur: perhaps agree. AVK has suggested we have a catalog of metadata and decide case-by-case whether exposing it is reasonable to expose via CORP.

mkwst: given webperf creating lots of such metadata perhaps Yoav could pitch in on that?

yoav: happy to.

junK: impt to comm to devs that COI will only make attack easier, but still possible in 'other contexts' just more difficult

mkwst: that's why we trying to shift web's default towards isolation -- need to guide devs towards isolation-by-default, and do better job at it.


#### The Unending Excitement of Charters

([Draft](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/blob/2021-charter/admin/drafts/2021-charter.md), [diff](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/compare/9fadcee...e285ad7))

wseltzer: Charter is the "security policy for ther working group". Sets the scope we're allowed to work on. Committing patents, etc. W3C membership says it's something we want to enable work to proceed for the good of the web. A little bit of marketing: "Join us in our efforts!" Guidance for membership: "Do I want to particate in this group?" Sets boundaries for the kinds of proposals we can discuss here. No "Put the web on the blockchain!" proposals (at least not before they incubate and are brought to a new charter).

mkwest: scope it big enough to cover the things we care about, including potential newly discovered vulns; not so large that it scares people away. 

... links: diff showing conversion to markdown; second commit, changes mission, scope. Will need to change deliverables. Things we'll need to add coming from WICG; a number of things we're in conversation with browsers, devs. 

... scope changes wording, don't think it changes the substance. the problems we see with web security and specs underway. 

... take a look at the charter and diff, and let us know if it makes sense to you. 

... Contribute via pull requests. 2021-charter branch of w3c/webappsec repo. Or discuss on mailing list. 

... Thanks Artur for an interesting discussion! 
