# WebAppSec WG - 2025-07-16

[Minutes from the last meeting (2025-06-18)](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/blob/main/meetings/2025/2025-06-18-minutes.md)

## Logistics

*   **`#webappsec`** on [W3C's slack instance](https://w3ccommunity.slack.com/)
    * <https://www.w3.org/slack-w3ccommunity-invite> if you haven't already joined.
*   **Zoom**:
    * Details at <https://auth.w3.org/?url=https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/webappsec/calendar>

## Attendees

*   Mike West (Google)
*   Marian Harbach (Google)
*   Joe DeBlasio (Google)
*   Jeffrey Yasskin (Google Chrome, TAG)
*   Anna Weine (Mozilla)
*   Martin Thomson (Mozilla)
*   Emily Stark (Google)
*   Tom Schuster (Mozilla)
*   Lawson Jaglom-Kurtz (Shopify)
*   Simone Onofri (W3C)
*   Dan Rubery (Google)
*   Mustafa Acer (Google)
*   Daniel Huigens (Proton)
*   Artur Janc (Google)
*   David Adrian (Google)

*   (You!)

## Agenda

*   DBSC: [browser-initiated](https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-dbsc/) vs [server-initiated](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/1052#issuecomment-2946681508) flows (@drubery)
*   [Discouraging permission prompts](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/refs/heads/main/docs/security/no-prompts-please.md) (@mharbach)
*   `SameSite=Strict` and cross-app navigation (@kmonsen)
*   whatwg/html#10687 - preventing DOM clobbering (@evilpie)
* [Modern Algorithms in Web Crypto](https://github.com/twiss/webcrypto-modern-algos): [moving to WICG](https://github.com/WICG/proposals/issues/220)
*   CfCs:
      - CfC to move CSP-3 to CR < 2025-07-16 - https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/issues/682
      - CfC to move Fetch Metadata to CR < 2025-07-16 - https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/issues/681
      - CfC to move SRI-2 to CR < 2025-07-16 - https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/issues/680
      - CfC to move WebCrypto-2 to CR < 2025-07-16 - https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/issues/679
      - CfC to publish Well-Known URL for Relying Party Passkey Endpoints as a FPWD < 2025-07-16 - https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/issues/678
      - CfC to publish DBSC as a FPWD < 2025-07-12  - https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/issues/677
* What does FPWD involve and how to prepare for CR?



## Minutes

### DBSC : [browser-initiated](https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-dbsc/) vs [server-initiated](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/1052#issuecomment-2946681508) flows

Dan Rubery: Two proposals for DBSC. Current proposal puts resopnsibility on the browser to initiate refresh requests upon cookie expiration. We hope this makes it easier for sites to adopt DBSC. TAG proposed a simpler protocol in which servers initiate the flow. This requires servers to manage state related to authentication on every endpoint, the browser-initiated version doesn't. It also requires servers to think about how to manage TPM usage. So, there is extra complexity in the spec. Is it justified by the simpler operation for servers?

Arnar: From the Google side: we tried a few things to protect against cookie theft. We naturally started with server-driven proposals where they'd ask for fresh proofs. Ran into problems defining this, and found that it reqiored deep changes across the web stack. Explored ways of considering everything unauthenticated until a signature was seen. Semantics didn't quite work well with the statelessness of HTTP. Not just a Google problem, complexity applies to anyone building this kind of stack. Decided to ask the browser to do the heavy lifting. In the TAG review, the discussion was around why that complexity was necessary. We'd like to understand whether the complexity we found only applies to us, whether it applies to others, whether it should be a requirement in the spec. MT: we left some comments on the issue about why we think the complexity is necessary. WDYT?

MT: Didn't find them convincing. There is a coordination problem here. If some unique event is driving this, cookie expiration, etc. it will occur simultaniously across many contexts. Not a deal-breaker, plenty of compute available. Nice to reduce the odds that it happens, but there seem to be many ways to do that. Doesn't justify the vast increase in complexity. Hoping to find server operators beyond Google. Simpler alternative has advantages outside the browser context: design for bot authentication could be very similar. Cookie can bridge signatures in that context. Could be available for simpler clients, which would be beneficial.

Jeffrey: Frame this slightly differently: MT's suggestion is to add a cookie attribute to say the cookie is signed, allows for experimentation over time. DBSC solves one problem, hard to use it to explore other shapes. Simpler thing lets servers experiment and figure out what the best shape is. But Arnar/Dan mentioned the TPM as a limited resource: 1 sig/second for some. That might be a key constraint that requires a different shape. But I think MT is right that the key question is: the DBSC design has been vetted inside Google, but Google is unusual. Need other server operators to weigh in.

Arnar: May have overindexed on the coordination issue in the thread. I think you're right that that's solvable. The really difficult part is that it's very hard to do the server initiated things centrally, not because of multiple requests timing out at the same time, but in application semantics when requests might fail. Redirecting away and then back does not guarantee a semantic retry with no other side-effects. Solution we're proposing: web apps do what they always did: look for cookies with certain properties. That's where the blocking/refresh in DBSC comes in. We never let requests go without cookies, to ensure that applications don't have to handle that case.

...: We did talk to others, Amazon. Lots of interested website operators, gotten signals that the technical solution is useful, but very few people that have dived deeply into the technical details. MTs review was a great example of doing that. We can go to our partners, see if they can do that, but the main issue is the operational cost of getting a solution out there across multiple frameworks, IDPs, etc. 

...: There are benefits to having support for server-initiated models. Seems valuable to be able to tell the browser that "now it would be nice to have a refreshed signature". But when it happens outside the websites' expectation, they don't know what to do with it. Good to have an explicit creation of the concept of a session, same level in the server stack with sign in. Once we have that, we can build simple ways to say "if you hit any of these paths, you need to send a proof of possession of the key".

MT: Point is well taken. Unlike classical login breaks, where you just stop the world, this is a situation in which you want to have seamless background refresh. From my perspective, trying to solve this at the point at which the signature expires is a problem. Probably true for the browser approach as well, you want to get ahead of expiration. This seems like it would be managable on the server. If cookie is set and has a timestamp, you initiate the refresh process when you've got X minutes left. Trying to solve the problem at the point of expiration is hard. Sympathetic to the use case, want this to be successful, need to work through the design.

Kristian: Data for how often there's more than one request waiting?

Arnar: We might have data for that for Google's prototype. Not sure how well it translates generally. To MTs point: dealing with things post-expiration is problematic, better to do it up front. Do have the notion of proactive refreshes, expecting these cookies to live on the order of minutes. Can dig into whether that's better handled by server or client, can talk about that in the issue. Also: we can write up the server-initiated usage of a DBSC session, if we say that explicit registration is a thing to keep, compare that with your proposal, think through use cases where the server wants to control things.

MT: Would be good to have it written down.

Jeffrey: Proactive cookie refreshes: perhaps that's another orthogonal feature that could be separate without mixing in the rest of DBSC.

MT: Right. Package deal right now. Perhaps breaking them out allows novel composition.

Arnar: Maybe the timeout that triggers a refresh is different from the expiration timeout. We had that in drafts along the way. Could write it up.

Jeffrey: `stale-while-revalidate` is related?

MT: Good model to operate under. Period of time in which you'll use the thing without updating the cache. Then a period where it's valid but you're asking to refresh.

Arnar: Will come back with a concrete proposal.


### [Discouraging permission prompts](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/refs/heads/main/docs/security/no-prompts-please.md)

Marian: UXR on Chrome. Prompts are commonly used to address risks in APIs, steady stream of new capabilities that want to use prompts to mitigate risks, which we'd like to discourage. We're thinking about that in Chrome, interested in thinking through with W3C. Looking for feedback on [Discouraging permission prompts](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/refs/heads/main/docs/security/no-prompts-please.md).

...: We're saying that there are pain points with permission prompts today. Prompts share a number of attributes that can be painful.

...: Developer push in most cases: developer is best situated to decide when it's a good moment to ask, but often don't put enough thinking into that and prompt in interruptive experiences for users.

...: Risk desisions are often difficult to explain: Fonts API is a good example of a fingerprinting risk that's hard to express in a prompt.

...: Prompts are limited UI surfaces: can only provide so much information, people only spend so much time reading them, etc.

...: Reframe the problem. Would be ideal for APIs to rely on users pulling for a capability. If the user signals that they're ready to engage with a specific capability, we can ask more meaningful questions and situate the prompt in a context that makes sense.

...: Today, often all-or-nothing questions. WebUSB for example.

...: In that doc, we talk about patterns we're exploring to make sure that usage of capabilities is intended and safe.

...: Device pickers are good, and provide solid context. File browsing dialog: share the specific file, users understand the UX.

...: Sandboxing risks. Put UI in the browser's hands rather than the site. Font picker.

...: Direct controls. Window overlay controls: icon in the top bar of the browser, user can toggle between modes.

...: Are there any thoughts around this topic? Ideas? Agreement? Would be interesting ti discuss a group NOTE that we could socialize and discuss.

dveditz: Lots of capabilities where the abuse potential is not obvious to the user, but would otherwise be things you don't really want to ask about. Notifications, performance capabilities, etc.

MT: Another example is full screen.  Where the capability is made available, but revocation is trivial. Storage access!

Marian: We've tried to think about many. Outcome isn't "In this case you should do that." but "Prompts are the last solution to choose."

dveditz: Right. In cases where it's validly used, everyone clicks "yes" and it's just friction.

Marian: Permission element is a proposal wherein at least the developer doesn't get to decide when to throw a prompt at you. Not much experience with it in the wild yet, but hopeful signals.

MT: I generally subscribe to the same thesis as Dan: prompts are uniformly bad. Storage Access API: why are we asking users to make this decision when we're not giving them the tools to make the decision. Local Network Access: defends against real attacks, but the prompt is still terrible. Don't want to ask users to make this decision without being able to understand. We should look for ways that don't rely on simple yes/no answers. But also struggling to come up with better alternatives. Hard situation. One thing to add: there are a class of capabilities that you can just give to sites because there are no long-term consequences. Full-screen mode. Easy to retract that permission. Not the case for other privacy-relevant APIs.

Marian: Good suggestion.

Emily: Local Network Access is a good example. We tried to do something without a prompt, failed, now falling back to a prompt. For fullscreen, I have a different reaction: in Chrome we get a steady stream of security bugs and scams that abuse fullscreen. Something of an anti-pattern. We talked about putting it behind a prompt. Would be safer, but doesn't work for many fullscreen use cases.

dveditz: Nice thing about fullscreen: request from the website's PoV. If we wanted to put something in we could, as opposed to popup blocker where we hacked it in in ways that don't support the underlying APIs. Good to make APIs promise-based for flexibility in the future.

Marian: Would it make sense for this group to put out a NOTE? Not sure this opinion is well-known in other contexts.

Mike: I'm happy to help with that. Not sure about the venue.

MT: Yes, Promise thing should be in the design principles if it's not there already.

Jeffrey: TAG needs this group's input. Would love to have opinions to endorse.

### `SameSite=Strict` and other apps.

Kristian: `SameSite=Strict`: if you go to a new website by typing something in the address bar, we send `samesite=strict`. What about clicking on things from another application? Is that the same thing? Or should we mitigate.

dveditz: It's both. Difficult to distinguish between "navigation" from app to app and other ways of navigating (shortcut links, etc). Might be things we could do with command-line parameters, etc.

Kristian: There is a distinction at the API level: `loadURL(excludeSameSiteStrict)`? Browsers using webview, trying to decide whether `WebView` needs a new API.

[discussion that the scribe participated in, which is difficult]

mkwst: Please add the API.

dveditz: This is exactly what `SameSite` aims to defend against. Malicious emails, etc.

Kristian: Messages doesn't have a "site".

dveditz: Right. But the content, I might trust Messages itself, but I don't trust the messages sent through that app.

### DOM Clobbering

Tom: We looked at telemetry for built-in properties that are overwritten. Looks like it might be managable. Aiming to block clobbering in Firefox, would be nice to get others to follow along.

dveditz: Link to the concrete proposal?

Tom: Last comment in the issue.

mkwst: interested.

dveditz: Might be complexity in WebView on iOS where browsers need to inject JavaScript.

Tom: WebKit issue as well. Would be great to reopen that.

[We'll punt everything else to next time, probably with some mailing list updates on CfCs in the meantime.]
