# WebAppSec WG - 2025-02-19

[Wednesday, February 19th: 17:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20250219T1700) (09:00 California, 12:00 Boston, 17:00 London, 18:00 Berlin)

[Minutes from the last meeting](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/blob/main/meetings/2025/2025-01-15-minutes.md)

### Logistics
*   **`#webappsec`** on [W3C's slack instance](https://w3ccommunity.slack.com/)
    * <https://www.w3.org/slack-w3ccommunity-invite> if you haven't already joined.
*   **Zoom**:
    * Details at <https://auth.w3.org/?url=https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/webappsec/calendar>

### Attendees

* Mike West (Google)
* Yoav Weiss (Shopify)
* Joe DeBlasio (Google)
* Carlos Ibarra Lopez (Google)
* Tom Ritter (Mozilla)
* David Dworken (Google) 
* Mustafa Acer (Google)
* Chris Thompson (Google)
* Anna Weine (Mozilla)
* Abdulrahman Alqabandi (Microsoft)
* Frederik Braun (Mozilla)
* Lawson Jagom-Kurtz (Shopify)
* Daniel Huigens (Proton)
* Richard Hansen (Meta)
* Ciara McMullin (Google)
* Ezzudin Alkotob (Meta)
* Simone Onofri (W3C)
* David Adrian (Google)
* Thibault Meunier (Cloudflare)
* Michael Rosenberg (Cloudflare)
* Dan Veditz (Mozilla)
* Simon Wijckmans (c/side)
* Emily Stark (Google)
_Your name here!_

### Agenda

* SRI (~15m)
  * [Reviving `require-sri-for`](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec-subresource-integrity/pull/129) (@yoavweiss)
  * SRI Level 2 for current proposals? (@mikewest)
* [Web Application Integrity Consistency and Transparency (WAICT)](https://github.com/beurdouche/explainers/blob/main/waict-explainer.md) (@beurdouche) (~20m)
* [~Private~ Local Network Access](https://github.com/explainers-by-googlers/local-network-access) (@christhompson) (~15m)
* CSP: "[Choose a consistent model for workers under nonce-based policies](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec-csp/issues/375)" (@qabandi) (~5m)
* If time remains (~5m in theory!)... if not, will punt to next month (<https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/issues/668>):
  * Signature-based Integrity
    * [Inline `<script>` Integrity](https://github.com/mikewest/inline-integrity) (@mikewest)
    * [What to do with unknown parameters?](https://github.com/WICG/signature-based-sri/issues/38) (@mikwest, @ddworken, et al)


## SRI

### [Reviving `require-sri-for`](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec-subresource-integrity/pull/129)

yoavweiss: `require-sri-for` used to be a thing in the spec. Was implemented, but never shipped. Some reasons for never shipping it: they might not be relevant anymore. Modules now have a way to define integrity, and there were some deployment issues that signature-based SRI might solve for us. From Shopify's perspective, PCIv4 requirements strongly encourage using SRI for _all_ scripts. This would help. PR #129 linked from the minutes: roughly reverts the revert that removed the feature. Chromium prototype behind a flag. Not a lot of complexity here, not new ground.

tomritter: Not covering CSS doesn't meet the spirit of what PCI is trying to accomplish. What do auditors say?

yoavweiss: Haven't talked to auditors about this. From memory, the PCIv4 language targets scripts specifically, not styles. Happy to expand this to cover style if there's a viable use case, not a ton of extra work.

danveditz: If this work isn't sufficient, we should extend it. Would be good to know.

Simon Wijckmans: PCI: blanket policy requiring some kind of client-side protections in place. If we extend beyond script tags, we need to consider fonts too. Audio, image, etc. Feature creep to require hashes on literally every third-party element.

dveditz: Style can change appearance, some content, trick the user. Not clear if that's part of the threat model.

Simon Wijckmans: Current scope is third-party script.

dveditz: Given SOP, it probably should cover more...

Simon Wijckmans: I agree, but that's not what it says.

mkwst: [summarizes]

yoavweiss: Happy to include or exclude styles. No real pressure for that at the moment.

dveditz: Worth adding a note to the spec that it could be expanded in the future, but no one's chomping at the bit to add styles.

yoav: happy to incorporate such a note.

### SRI Level 2?

Mike: we've got a bunch of proposals for changes to SRI, and the current draft has a bunch of changes and corrections. I propose that we take what we have and call it a Level 2. I should already be covered by the charter and IPR committments.

Yoav: we talked about a living standard for CSP3 -- why not a living standard for SRI? The official REC is from 2016

Mike: short answer -- because we published in 2016 that predates the process that allowed the 'living standard' workflow.

dveditz: Taking the ED and turning that into a Level 2, published under the new process, then updates from there. Can't extend the one that's there. CSP3 is in a different state, can be done under the new process.

Mike: because we never published CSP3 as CR we're good there
There's interest in taking the current ED, publishing it as L2 and then use that to add changes to that.
Would suggest adding to that require-sri-for and Signature based SRI, but that would be up for the group

Simone to send an email to the list to publish the current ED as FPWD



## [Web Application Integrity Consistency and Transparency (WAICT)](https://github.com/beurdouche/explainers/blob/main/waict-explainer.md)

richard: Team has been working with Mozilla to come up with this explainer, broader coallition in the last month or so. At a high level: we want to provide integrity, consistency, and transparency to the web in a standardized browser-based mechanisms without forcing folks to install extensions. Why? Meta is interested in E2EE, webmail, secure messaging, etc are also interested in giving users confidence that the code they're executing is the correct application code, not being specifically targeted, etc. Limitiations in our current approach: accessibility for everyone, no action should be necessary, users should just be protected.

...: How will this work? Manifest of hashes. Really reduces size. HTTP header to configure what we're trying to enforce. Transparency/Consistency: proofs of inclusion, logging manifests. Users can ensure that we're serving what we said we'd serve.

...: Next steps are prototypes in browsers, working through the implementation details.

...: Transparency and consistency together reduce the risk that we'll need to rework one, and give clear benefits to users right away.

...: Meta's done this already via an extension. We publish manifests on a regular basis: 8-12 builds a day. Site updates, extension pulls the manifest down. Partnership with Cloudflare to make this work. Designed for `facebook.com` (largest), but works for `whatsapp.com` (smallest). But not Meta-specific, should work across as many sites as possible.

...: Incremental adoption seems necessary. Can't do this in one shot, need to be able to layer it on.

...: Why isn't SRI sufficient on its own? Doesn't provide transparency/consistency. Restricted to scripts right now. Want CSS, WASM, binary assets, media, etc. Colocating hashes with the script itself is unweildy for large sites. Workers are also troublesome here. Time of check/time of use in the extension could be solved in the browser. Want to provide as many guarantees as possible with the tools available. Bringing this into the browser allows us to close all the gaps we see in our current implementation.

...: Next steps: extend SRI with a manifest and header. Then cryptographic proofs and public logging. Main request: what should the next steps be?

yoavweiss: External manifest? Extra blocking resource downloaded before running any asset on the page?

richard: Yes and no. Covered in the detail doc a bit, but at a high level, two forms: for sites that publish once and never modify, could just be a header. Other variant is embedding it in the page, verified after the fact. Different levels of strictness. Current extension allows page content to execute, then verifies/reports after the fact. 

yoavweiss: Images. Progressive loading prevents SRI today. Verifying after the fact could help.

richard: For privacy-concerned folks, the perf tradeoff could be reasonable. Most sites would opt for the regular variant, but allow folks to opt-into more security.

yoavweiss: Moving pieces here more or less already exist. SRI, CSP hash reporting, import maps, etc. You want to bundle that in a convinient form-factor, extend to media, after-the-fact reporting?

daniel: Main other thing missing from the web platform today is being able to verify the integrity of the main page. Plus the transparency part.

chris thompson: Have you given much thought to dynamic application behavior? Isolated Web Apps, require strict CSP, even with that we ack that an application developer could ship a JIT in their application bundle and pull dynamic data to create dynamic behavior. What balance do you strike?

richard: Tradeoff is visibility. Surface and record the behavior, allowing that to be analyzed after the fact. Not a prevention mechanism, but a visibility mechanism. Want to give people the chance after the fact to see if you're hiding things in plain site. In CodeVerify, we have an archive of all the JS we serve. Don't serve all the JS to all users, but manifest is based on the archive. Download script, verify it's in the manifest. Then look back in time to see what the code was for a given site at a given point in time. We maintain that for some period of time. A ~year. Longer the better.

thibault: Building on existing blocks, consolidating them in one place. In SRI today: client can report the state they're seeing. This takes a more passive approach, complimentary. Visibility and accountability for what they'll serve to users even before it gets to users. Tamper-evident flows via transparency.

mike: the next step for this kind of thing is to shift this into formal incubation, which has a lower bar than joining this WG directly. Write a spec, get feedback in incubation, and the CG gives you some IP protection. The long-term plan to get to REC would go through  working group, and WASWG seems appropriate place to do that. YOu would send out an "intent to migrate" at that point. We'll need to check our charter to make sure it fits. Seems like it should--maybe the transparency part is a little off to the side, but we could also re-charter if we get to that point.  When you get a thing that's ready to be standardized people will say "we want you in my WG" or they'll say "you don't fit in our WG", but either way lots of people will want to help you along at that point.

## [~Private~ Local Network Access](https://github.com/explainers-by-googlers/local-network-access) (@christhompson) (~15m)

chris: Background: This is a new approach to an old problem. Status quo: `example.com` can load/send network requests to the user's local network. Sites can abuse the browser's position in a user's network to act as a "confused deputy", poking at things it should not have access to (through physical location; IP-based ACLs). Routers, devices on network, etc don't receive updates, do not expect arbitrary requests, are often targeted.

...: Topmost goal is to address that status quo security risk. Prevent arbitrary websites from making arbitrary connections to arbitrary deviced on a user's network. Previous approach aimed for a nice security property through preflight requests to local endpoints. In an ideal world where the websites and the local devices have publicly-trusted TLS, everything kinda works. But it turns out there are under/unstated assumptions about how things exist in the world. First, devices need to support preflights. Second, they need to support publicly trusted TLS.

...: Even the best of the best (Plex is a good example of this, provisioning publicly-trusted certs to local devices) still find situations where they have to fall back to HTTP (not HTTPS). Mixed content, etc.

...: Prior PNA work did a lot of outreach and wrangling to find a path forward. ~4 years before folks moved on to other things. But we still think the top-level problem is a security flaw in the platform today. But we think a more narrowly-scoped solution could actually ship in 2025.

...: New approach: just put this behind a permission. There are tradeoffs. Very valid question of what kind of permission prompt we can put in front of users. We benefit some from broader alignment around permissions. iOS did this. macOS just started doing this. Some research around the iOS permission prompt: what do users understand, what could be better?

...: Usable security research hat on: I'm optimistic. Some part of users can understand some part of a prompt. Tractable problem. "Do I expect this site to do things to my local network", don't need to think more deeply than that. On the drive-by web, not using a tool I expect to poke at my local network, I probably won't expect it, will probably say no.

...: Not a dissimilar problem to what we have trying to solve notifications prompts. If we see lots of sites making these kinds of requests, we'd rethink, but as it stands, it's fairly rare. Higher than you might think, but lower than you might worry about from an abuse perspective. Somewhere between a speed-bump to prevent arbitrary websites from scanning your network, compared to the prior proposal with preflights.

...: Security/privacy tradeoffs. Preflights have a strong binding propert, bi-directional opt-in, but user is never in the loop. Install a device that wants to be in conversation with the web, it can communicate as much as they want without user involvement.

...: Preflights themselves could be abused to probe/fingerprint the network. Timing attacks to see what does/doesn't respond to preflights, etc. Ideas being discussed to rate limit, add to privacy budget, etc. Technical complexity of making the original PNA stuff work was high. We'd like to ship something this year, permission prompt seems doable.

dveditz: Implicit permission request? Or actually using an API to do this? Brave intercepts requests, for example. Doesn't need websites to change.

chris: Rough design is implicit. Some complexity around resolving mixed content, details in the explainer.

dveditz: If someone loads something that loads many resources, could be many prompts. Permission for local target? Or "this site can load local resources".

chris: Blanket permission. Even original proposal was carving out HTTP connections to local network. Unencrypted local network requests does not give strong guarantees about address/origin binding anyway.
    
Abdulrahman: Preflight can't be abused for CSRF? Scope that could be implemented to ensure no abuse? Levels of strictness with regard to the permission request?

chris: Right now, preflights are unauthenticated, do a header dance, opt in. Site wants to make the connection, interceeding on theuser's behalf.

Abdulrahman: CSP has a very strict mode, and a less-strict mode. Perhaps there's a less strict mode you could look into here, solve isolation separately.

chris: Followup work we could do to bring back isolation properties.

mkwst: Punting everything else until March. Thanks folks!
