# WebAppSec WG - 2025-04-16

[Minutes from the last meeting (2025-03-19)](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/blob/main/meetings/2025/2025-03-19-minutes.md)

## Logistics
*   **`#webappsec`** on [W3C's slack instance](https://w3ccommunity.slack.com/)
    * <https://www.w3.org/slack-w3ccommunity-invite> if you haven't already joined.
*   **Zoom**:
    * Details at <https://auth.w3.org/?url=https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/webappsec/calendar>

## Attendees

* Mike West (Google)
* Frederik Braun (Mozilla)
* Anna Weine (Mozilla)
* Dan Veditz (Mozilla)
* Ciara McMullin (Google)
* Joe DeBlasio (Google)
* Carlos Ibarra Lopez (Google)
* Mustafa Acer (Google)
* Yoav Weiss (Shopify)
* Miguel de Moura (Cloudflare)
* Maxime Guerreiro (Cloudflare)
* Camille Lamy (Google)
* Simon Friedberger (Mozilla)
* Artur Janc (Google)
* Tom Schuster (Mozilla)
* Anshuman Goel (Microsoft)
*   (You!)


## Agenda

* [`Integrity-Policy`](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec-subresource-integrity/pull/129#issuecomment-2757716392), née `require-sri-for` (@mozfreddyb, @yoavweiss)
* [`script-src-v2`](https://github.com/explainers-by-googlers/script-src-v2) (@carlosjoan91)
* Quick update on Signature-based SRI (@mikewest)
* Administrivia
  * FPWD for [SRI2](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/issues/671) and [WebCrypto2](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/issues/672)
  * Fetch Metadata to CR?
  * CSP3 to CR?

## Minutes

### [`Integrity-Policy`](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec-subresource-integrity/pull/129#issuecomment-2757716392), née `require-sri-for`

yoav: [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1luBl5hnBjYMEe8fmQqTUuL_sIwz9agvPW7hZqFKapUU/edit?slide=id.p#slide=id.p). Integrity Policy is the natural continuation of `require-sri-for`. Proposal is to have a new header rather than a CSP directive: `Integrity-Policy: destinations=(script)`. Structured Field dictionary: `destinations=(script), endpoints=(integrity-reporting 3p-reporting)`. Report only via `Integrity-Policy-Report-Only`. Violation events and reporting mechanism similar to CSP. Reports `documentURL` and `blockedURL`. Want to be able to extend this in the future: `destinations=(script style image), endpoints=(integrity), sources=(inline, telepathy), enforcement=(warn)`. Enforcement is currently "block", might be possible to "warn" users but continue displaying partially-loaded images, for example.

yoav: PR open to define this against SRI: https://github.com/w3c/webappsec-subresource-integrity/pull/133

yoav: Looking for feedback. Should reports indicate they're report-only? Need more details? Anything we're missing?

dveditz: Policy that's blocking with a stricter policy that's report-only? Different reporting endpoints? If so, probably don't need to indicate report-onlyness in the reports.

yoav: Yes. Two different headers. Considered both in one header, but landed on `Integrity-Policy` and `Integrity-Policy-Report-Only`.

Camille: What's the difference between the policy in "warn" mode and the "report-only" mode?

yoav: Report-only tells the developer. "Warn" tells the user. Plan, if I understand it correctly, is for the browser to tell the user that this site has some assets that aren't verified.

Camille: How?

freddy: Uncertainty how we do this for resources like images. We've played with two ideas: 1. Page could result in an error, which could help with integrity for documents. 2. Giving pages the ability to fallback to a known-good state.

Camille: Error pages might be hard in Chromium. We generally do errors before we load the document. But: 2. Endpoints. We can ask for different destinations to which we send reports: should we have the ability to structure the policy per endpoint?

Yoav: Different enforcement per destination?

mikewest: Multiple headers? Oh, wait, that doesn't work because of Structured Field grammar. Not one of CSP's best features anyway.

Yoav: Still, good point, will take into account.

Camille: Both COOP and COEP send `report-only` with reports. Seems fine.

Artur: It does help to tell endpoints if the report is from `report-only`. +1 to that. But: how does this work for no-cors resources? This only applies to CORS loads, right? Would no-cors be exempted from the policy?

yoav: No, they'll all fail. Would accompany this with a document policy that forced CORS as default.

Artur: Excellent. Flag to upgrade everything to CORS would be useful.

Camille: Has come up with COEP deployments as well. People want that.

dveditz: Does this support `<meta>` delivery?

freddy: Haven't spent time on this. For now, the answer's no.

dveditz: Could work for subresources, wouldn't work for the document.

yoav: Leave feedback for us on the PR!


### [`script-src-v2`](https://github.com/explainers-by-googlers/script-src-v2)

carlos: Proposal to extend `script-src`. We'd like to provide a way to allow specific URLs and specific scripts for `eval()` to support sites that have to use a very relaxed policy at the moment. Proposing a new directive: will allow sites to get rid of `unsafe-eval`, so want a relaxed `script-src`, while having this new thing for browsers that support it that overrides. Backwards compatibility. Supports most of `script-src`, but also hashes for specific script URLs and `eval()` contents. Using hash mostly because of size. We'd also add the URL hashes to CSP reports, allowing developers to just copy/paste from report-only policy into their enforced policy.

carlos: Explainer is out, it's the best place to leave feedback.

mustafa: Motivation: make it possible to deploy a reasonably secure CSP easily. Idea here is that we don't support hostname-based allowlist. Just hashed URLs. Can generate a policy just by looking at the contents of a page.

maxime: Explainer mentions `new Function` and `eval()` and etc. Feels like you don't know exactly what you're going to run with those functions. How does hashing work in this case? Also, Trusted Types aren't mentioned in the explainer. What's the interaction?

carlos: Yes, `eval()` is dynamic. You do need to know the content. You can allowlist multiple versions of course. Still dynamic, but better than nothing. Trusted Types. Haven't put much thought into it.

Artur: No impact on Trusted Types. Orthogonal features, use both. This is just about the expressive power of CSP.

maxime: If I'm using Trusted Types, I don't need this new feature?

Artur: Sure, could just have DOM protection from TT, and not this CSP.

dveditz: Use the regular `script-src` with TT `unsafe-eval` if you need dynamic execution?

Artur: [Nodded]. 

dveditz: Does this integrate with signatures? If that integrity attribute is specified in the `script-src` will it still work?

carlos: It won't, but you wouldn't need this in that case. Would still work in `script-src-v2`.

tom: Confused about the URL hashes. I've told people in the past that hashes are the most secure, will be confusing if they also allow URLs. How can we talk about the security properties?

carlos: Main reason for hashes is the header size.

mustafa: This has been raised as an issue on the explainer: if you can use content hashes you should continue to use them. This tries to carve out a subset of `script-src`. An alternative for this would allow entire URLs or relative URLs, but main value is the header size. Explanation might be difficult, but could stress that content hashes are preferred.

tom: I'm not sure. I think explanation will be difficult. Should think about this before shipping.

Artur: Example case: JSONP. Load a URL that wraps JSON in a function call: currently there's no way to allowlist that using CSP URLs: ineffective because URL parameters aren't included. Can't allow `?callback=foo` but not `?callback=bar`. Hashes take the entire URL into account. Header size is another aspect. Third aspect is `strict-dynamic`: makes the policy ignore host-based entries. Hashes can be used with `strict-dynamic` without modification. Lots of nuance. We're thinking about using this to build tooling that would run through a site and generate a policy for you. Middleware, etc. Supports automation, doesn't require understanding.

simon: We've added CSP support to our products for reporting. Important to talk about real-life limitations: Google Tag Manager, etc. are dynamic. Locking things to full URLs in CSP is error-prone. Doesn't work in the real world. Third-party tools will change their content, etc. This proposal doesn't address this problem at all. Entropy in URLs is being ignored in the specification, big opportunity.

carlos: URL you're loading changes?

simon: Script is loaded, then it loads more scripts. First script might be a manifest, it loads a tree of additional scripts. CSP blocks scripts that aren't in the allowlist. So people use hostnames rather than granular URLs. Hashes don't help. This is why CSP has a low adoption rate.

artur: This is why `strict-dynamic` exists. You don't have to know the ultimate URLs, you allow what's in your markup's actual tags, those scripts can then use non-parser based APIs to load more scripts that `strict-dynamic` allows.

simon: That's a partial solution. But if we want to fix CSP to be more usable, adding a feature that generates policies might be good, but hashes don't help on the real-world internet.

mustafa: Goal is to make CSP deployable, so you should be able to generate a working policy by scanning the page prior to redirects. `strict-dynamic` does the rest. Hashes don't do anything here, really.

jdeblasio: Sympathetic to the breakage risk. Also sympathetic to the complexity of CSP. This feature has some nice deployment properties, but is not intended to be the end-all-be-all of CSP deployment. It targets needs we've identified as being useful.

simon: Tangentially: when will Chrome stop extensions from stripping CSP?

dveditz: Spec says something about this. 

mike: Got it, that's right. File a bug against the spec to discuss.

mike: New spelling for the hash to answer Tom's concern? `url-sha256-...`?

carlos: Turn it on via `unsafe-hashes`.

dveditz: `unsafe-hashes` turns the feature on, might be good to distinguish.

freddy: domain separation between url-hashes vs. content-hashes would be great to have..

dveditz: Might be helpful to tag hashes for one part or the other.

### Quick update on Signature-based SRI

mikewest: Implementation more or less complete (modulo a decision on [whether redirects should be in the threat model](https://wicg.github.io/signature-based-sri/#security-redirection)). [Origin trial in Chrome](https://developer.chrome.com/origintrials/#/view_trial/2704974526189404161), running now through the ~end of the year. Sign up for the trial and file bugs!

maxime: Signed up for the OT. Haven't started yet. We are using redirects. So any change would impact us. Won't impact production for a bit, so change your mind all you want.

dveditz: How many domains?

mkwst: No idea. None yet. Just started.

dveditz: Current spec does not cover inline scripts?

mkwst: [Discussion of inline scripts].
    
### Administrivia

mkwst: Will publish FPWD of SRI2 and WebCrypto2. Should try to move those to CR quickly.

dveditz: Yes. Get the first snapshot out the door.
