# WebAppSec WG - 2025-03-19

[Minutes from the last meeting](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/blob/main/meetings/2025/2025-02-29-minutes.md)

### Logistics
*   **`#webappsec`** on [W3C's slack instance](https://w3ccommunity.slack.com/)
    * <https://www.w3.org/slack-w3ccommunity-invite> if you haven't already joined.
*   **Zoom**:
    * Details at <https://auth.w3.org/?url=https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/webappsec/calendar>

### Attendees

* Mike West (Google)
* Chris Thompson (Google)
* Emily Stark (Google)
* Dan Veditz (Mozilla)
* Tom Ritter (Mozilla)
* Mustafa Acer (Google)
* Filip Skokan (Okta)
* Richard Hansen (Meta)  
* Daniel Huigens (Proton)
* Yoav Weiss (Shopify)
* Ciara McMullin (Google)
* Joe DeBlasio (Google)
* David Adrian (Google)
* David Dworken
* Thibault Meunier
* Freddy Braun (Mozilla)
* Simon Friedberger (Mozilla)
* Chris de Almeida (IBM)
*
*   (You!)


### Agenda

* Signature-based Integrity
  * `require-sri-for` [compatibility and spelling](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec-subresource-integrity/pull/129#issuecomment-2707042346) (@yoavweiss)
  * [Inline <script> Integrity](https://github.com/mikewest/inline-integrity) (@mikewest)
  * [What to do with unknown parameters?](https://github.com/WICG/signature-based-sri/issues/38) (@mikwest, @ddworken, et al) (@mikwest, @ddworken, et al)
  * FPWD of SRI2?
* [Post-quantum cryptography in Web Crypto](https://twiss.github.io/webcrypto-modern-algos/pqc.html)

### `require-sri-for` [compatibility and spelling](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec-subresource-integrity/pull/129#issuecomment-2707042346) 

yoav: Implemented `require-sri-for` in Chromium, attempted to ship it, and discovered existing content that broke because of unfortunate reliance on the thing that almost shipped. ~10 sites break. Suggestion on the bug to change the directive to something in `script-src`.

...: Need to consider inline as well as externalized scripts.

...: Don't have strong opinions, happy to get opinions from the group.

dveditz: Inline scripts? I thought we did integrity on inline scripts only, then layered it on SRI?

freddy: I looked into the history here. We debated a directive in CSP, an entirely different header, etc. I think there might be value, in light of the web integrity plans, to add a new policy header that would support what `require-sri-for` does. No draft yet, working on it.

yoav: A new header with keywords, first one would be `require-sri-for-scripts`.

freddy: Semantically, yes.

yoav: I'd like to ship.

freddy: I understand the urgency.

yoav: Timeline?

freddy: Weeks not months.

dadrian: Just 10 sites? Can we break them?

yoav: We could, if we're convinced that we want this spelling. Seems like mostly Canadian education sites that aren't maintained. I'd feel bad about breaking them. But we could. We could also keep `require-sri-for` as a CSP directive, but change the spelling: `require-sri` or `require-sri-for2`. Just aiming to solve compat problems as well as accepting suggestions about the spelling.

freddy: Forward compat?

yoav: People added this header with future values that don't exist, but doing it without the SRI implementation.

freddy: If we were to take `require-sri-for` as it exists now and allowed it for script and style, it wouldn't work for other things: images, etc.

yoav: I think it would, unless folks already had the `worklet` keyword or something.

freddy: Got it. Agree.

mike: Ok, Freddy's going to put a proposal together. Yoav, how much urgency is there?

yoav: A bunch. A month might be fine, but would appreciate going faster.

mike: Maybe you can go work with Freddy and go faster?

freddy + yoav: Yup.


### [Inline <script> Integrity](https://github.com/mikewest/inline-integrity)

mike: SRI only applies to external resources, the `integrity` attribute doesnt apply to inline script text. The CSP spec does some of that with script hashes/nonces to control inline & external scripts. The hashes put into a CSP header sort-of layer on top of SRI to enable this. This doesn't entirely work for SRI & inline. 

mike: We learned that hashes are a bit brittle, as content changes over time. We explored signatures for external scripts (see previous meetings and later on today's agenda).

Dan: Yes, CSP != SRI

mike: Some folks distribute scripts embedded directly in HTML pages, but dynamically. For those the entity that is reponsible for the script vs. the entity that is responsible for HTTP headers are different! That means, they just can't use CSP at all. See issue https://github.com/WICG/signature-based-sri/issues/10.

mike: Therefore, I put together a quick draft that asks a lot of questions (see meeting notes header above). Do you agree this should be solved by SRI? Are these the same open questions that others have?

mike: TLDR: Use `integrity` attribute on inline scripts. Tried implementing this in Chromium, was really simple to do. WDYAT?

Emily: Why do we want this to be checked in the browser?

mike: Templating system does things in the frontend. It would work with `fetch` and integrity options, indeed. But that's not what sites out there appear to be using (e.g., Cloudflare and ???). A CSP that generally prevents inline scripts but allows some specifically allowed inline scripts doesn't do the proper amount of coordination. Same for nonces: Apparently also not something sites do.

Yoav:  I now understand that if we added this as an SRI mechanism, `require-sri-for` would now also apply to inline content and break stuff.  We should certainly make it explicit that external-scripts != internal-scripts.

mike: Yes, best look at inline scripts on Shopify pages for your specific problem too. We need to leave room or invent separate directives/controls

Dan: I agree.

mike: Anyone who is interested, please look at the proposal.

Dan: Still doesn't protect from injection issues. Just like hash-based SRI, you need CSP as well for that.

Mike: Makes it possible for to list hashes without knowing the direct context. Provenance rather than content.

David adrian:  (More talk about provenance vs. content)


### [What to do with unknown parameters in SRI?](https://github.com/WICG/signature-based-sri/issues/38)

mike: Signature-based SRI works on a long IETF doc for signatures-over-HTTP (https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9421). 

mike: How could we add metadata to this system? There is a registry that defines acceptable parameters for input to the signatures (cf. derived components, serialization)

mike: How do we support new stuff? What to do with unknown parameters?

mike:  As of now, the spec suggests ignoring unknown parameters as an input to the signature. However, an unbounded amount of signatures is possible and then the browser would only choose the signature it understands based on compatibility for unkown-new or unknown-old parameters.

mike: Another idea would be to also accept new, unknown parameters as input into the signature for future-compatibility such that you do not have to sign twice.

mike: This is exacerbated with key-roll-over mechanism that also requires to create multiple signatures as you transition all consumers & producers to the new key.

mike: People in issue 38 (see above) are already favorable, despite some trade-offs. 

mike: What is the wider group consensus?

(crickets)

Yoav: Ignoring unknown things vs. dropping the header if things are unknown.

mike: Only specific input. The header is a dictionary. I advocate we ignore a signature if we dont accept the rest

Yoav: Option 2 allows more convenience from my perspective.

mike: What parameters we choose to create in the future shouldn't affect the signature serialization. Then we're open to future-compatibility as part of this change.

mike: Finding good ideas after deployment once we have a working system and changing the spec just happens, but worrying a bit more about future-compat than w/ CSP seems important.

Yoav: the alternative to double-triple-quadruple-signatures would be people restricting themselves to a subset that is widely compatible. That is also not great.

mike: Maybe we should accept all headers instead of a listed set, but that will raise serialization concerns. Please y'all look and comment on the spec issue. I would like to resolve this discussion in the next coming weeks.

### FPWD for SRI2?

mike: publish existing SRI editor's draft as FPWD for "SRI Lvl 2" under the new w3c process, such that this will be be a Living Document.

mike: Any objections?

mike: Officially, there will be a call for consensus. Look at your emails soon.

mike: Fordward looking, we will need to be more careful about things that merge into SRI2 (similar to WHATWG working mode) that we have 2 implementations interested with tests and a positive standards position.

### [Post-quantum cryptography in Web Crypto](https://twiss.github.io/webcrypto-modern-algos/pqc.html)

daniel: Working with Anna Weine (Mozilla) to add post-quantum secure algoritithms to a web crypto draft: https://twiss.github.io/webcrypto-modern-algos/pqc.html. Adds a variety of algorithms, and some infrastructure to support them (key encapsulation for ML-KEM. for example). Just a personal draft at the moment, planning to propose to move this to WICG soon so we can get more people contributing.

daniel: Also adds a feature-detection mechanism: `SubtleCrypto.supports()`.

daniel: Last thing to flag: charter for this group says we can adopt proposals for maintenance of web crypto. Is this still in scope of maintaining the spec? Is adding new features OK? For the time being, it'll live in WICG, but would be good to understand what we'd need to do to get it into the main web crypto spec.

filip: Since this will likely request new IANA registrations (for Jose?), will need to end up in a published web crypto document at some point. Living editor's drafts haven't been accepted in the past.

dveditz: A living document in the W3C process actually does require us to publish official snapshots for IPR. We haven't yet done that in this group, but formal snapshots are the plan.

filip: Do WICG drafts have IPR protections?

dvedtiz: Less.

filip: Ed25519 is in that draft. Perhaps we're already overdue.

daniel: Curve 25519 is in the ED of the main spec. Already in this WG. Not sure about the process to publish.

dveditz: Like SRI, we need to publish a new FPWD to get it under the new process.

dadrian: Existing algorithms are coupled to hash algorithms. Pure ML-DSA, not has ML-DSA?

daniel: Yes. Fully specified algorthm names, no parameters.

filip: The spec does include digest algorithms that have interactions with ECDSA.

daniel: Open question about whether it should be legal to allow SHA-3 with existing algorithms that take a hash algorithm. Current text doesn't say anything about it, so it's ~allowed. But it'd be nice for the `supports()` method to say that it's not supported.

filip: It's not that it says you couldn;t do it. Current spec says that every algorithm in the digest registry is applicable to those that take a hash algorithm. For SHA-3, not a big problem. Is a big problem for cSHAKE.

daniel: In principle, this could be supported via the API. Could pass an object with parameters. But implementing it would be a different story. Perfectly reasonable for an implementation to say that's not supported, and add some text to the spec to make that decision legal.
