# WebAppSec WG - 2022-03-15

## Attendees

* Abdulrahman Alqabandi
* Giorgio Maone
* Dan Veditz
* Titouan Rigoudy (Google)
* Wendy Seltzer (W3C)
* Artur Janc (Google)
* Camille Lamy (Google)
* Jun Kokatsu (MS)
* Tobias (MS)
* Edward Qiu
* Frederik Braun (Mozilla)
* Sam Weiler
* Daniel Vogelheim (Google)
* Wendy Seltzer
* John Wilander (Apple WebKit)
* Bartosz Niemczura (Meta)
* Lukas Weichselbaum (Google)
* Krzysztof Kotowicz (Google)


Regrets: 
* Mike West

## Agenda

https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/blob/main/meetings/2022/2022-03-15-agenda.md

## Minutes

###  `document.domain` and `Origin-Agent-Cluster` (Daniel Vogelheim)

Daniel: Gave presentation last time. We intend to disable document.domain in 106, unless we hear of roadblocks. 
Generally, document.domain is a problem becausundermines same-origin
... in the spectre age, a problem, we want to deprecate 
So we want to issue warning in 100. in 101, a separate warning when someone tries to access
deprecate in 106. 

Currently, if you set origin-agent-cluster 1, or 0, will continue to work, available opt-out, but the defautl will change. The site needs to expressly say if if wants it to work. 

Artur: thanks, overall sounds great, clear security benefit. Any data re back compat?

Daniel: webcompat is the issue. The fix was easy. Still see a number of users, heavily clustered around small set of sites. 14-15 site about 50% of uses of document.domain. 1/million. Without the compat risk, it would have been easy. Console warnings starting from 100; outreach to users we know about, articles. There is an opt-out -- if you want to preserve behavior, put in the headers. 

Bartosz: Has the reporting API integration shipped?

Daniel: Chrome deprecation infrastructure uses reporting API. You should get both warnings there. 

DVeditz: If someone was going to use document.domain evilly, they could set the header, but hopefully can't set on their target

Daniel: both sites need to set the header. In that case, both have opted in.

DVeditz: any feedback re origin-agent-cluster usage of 0?

Daniel: they have been very supportive. both 1 and 0 will keep working as in the past. Defaults changing. 

John Wilander: Warnings are dev warnings, not user? Would they show up in dev tools?

Daniel: "Deprecation warnings" in dev tools infrastructure, plus reporting API. 

JohnW: goes back to conversations at the time of flash deprecation. Hard to get the message to sites who weren't using the new tools. Eventually we pulled the plug on Flash anyway. 
... re terminology: some use deprecate for officially deprecated

Jun: are you implementing site-isolation? And what happens if one of the document.domain sites doesn't opt-in and the other does?

Daniel: we are doing site-isolation already. The rules for it depends on what order sites use and are complicated, but we're using whatever `origin-agent-cluster` was already using.

Artur: what kinds of sites are using this, do we know?

Daniel: BBC pages with video frames are one case we know

Camille: this will create an increase in the number of process that we might not be able to support on every platform. Actually creating those processes might not always happen when requested but having document.domain decoupled will let us do site-isolation when we're able

###  Local network devices, and challenges surrounding them. (Titouan Rigoudy)

Titouan: The pre-flight for the private network access gives us most of the benefit. We initially thought to restrict this to secure contexts because an on-path attacker can subvert a request anyway, and that way developers would do the right thing by default. But this doesn't work well with mixed content, and local devices often don't have a unique name to be able to have a public certificate, and granting an exception usually doesn't work well either.

...: we gave developers a "back-door" to connect to private accesses insecurely. Web Transport gives devs the ability to create their own secure protocol, and can specify the fingerprint of the expected certificate. It needs not be a PKI cert to work in this scenario -- assuming there's a way to communicate that fingerprint from the device to the site.  Also depends on upcoming APIs so developers couldn't use this for users of shipping versions of Chrome.

...: There's a bootstrapping problem with web transport when you bring a new device on line. To mitigate the risks of insecure channels WT requires certs to expire in 2 wks, which means devices and developers have to think how to do this and communicate the changes. If an IoT device creates an in-built key it will be expired by time the device is sold. One way is for the device to connect to the company server to register itself and get a new key, and then when the user connects to the server they get the information. But Apple Home network and others are pushing for devices to not need an initial internet connection to work, so that kills this approach. The other other idea is some time-based key generation, but these devices could have wildly off clocks when they're first booted, making this not work either.

Jun: could you use something like [HTTP signed-exchange](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2018/11/signed-exchanges) (SXG) when connecting to the local wifi to get some of that initial information from the back-end.

Titouan: I would interested in discussing this further! File an issue on the [WICG issue tracker](https://github.com/wicg/private-network-access/issues/)?

Titouan: we could resort to something less secure and ask the user "can this connect to your private networks". We don't love this, and you could be making insecure connections. But it could work if we can't come up with anything better.

JohnW: I agree, asking isn't a great tool, but was going to mention that too. How does private network compare to localhost, where we do treat it as secure and doesn't have some of these problems. Also what about limiting this to one specific connection per permission request, so "scanning" a local network doesn't work but most specific applications still would.

Titouan: I don't think you can argue that local networks can be treated as secure. Private network addresses are less privileged than localhost, and a private address trying to talk to localhost will also have to go through the same negotiation. As for the prompt, the permission is important to eliminate fingerprinting. Even with the preflight checks, timing differences could lead to network fingerprinting.  Even a prompt that works for all addresses would stop drive-by scanning attemps.

JohnW: do you see a need for a site to connect to multiple private addresses?

Titouan: no we haven't really seen it but we'd have to investigate more to see how common it might be

SamW: We're seeing more use of scanning a QR code to activate things. That could communicate things like a MAC address, for example. Could some kind of "stack-busting" approach like this work?

Titouan: could communicate even more, which could be even more useful.

###  Trusted Types deployment at Facebook, Microsoft, and Google 
(Bartosz Niemczura, Jun Kokatsu, Krzysztof Kotowicz)

Slides: https://gadgets.kotowicz.net/poc/Trusted%20Types%20rollouts%20-%20w3c.pdf

Bartosz (from Meta): using reporting API to count violations.  targer apps with smller # of violations.  Broke larger apps into smaller ones by endpoint.  Some had no violations.  Sometimes saw issues from malware and browser extensions.  Overall, removed legacy code, moved to new frameworks.  Status: TT enforcement for all new products.  about 50% of old ones enforcing.  Challenges: open source libraries.  One-page applications, with single headed load.  Have to fix all violations at once.  Issues with widgets causing problems on multiple sites.  Would like more browsers to support trusted types.

Koto (Google): rollout prerequisities: static checks for TT compliance during compilation, but not 100%.  Built a "TT builder" library.  For picking target apps, relied on previous work re: CSP migration, so few evals, no unsafe-inline.  Used CSP report collection pipeline.

github: https://github.com/google/tsec and https://github.com/google/safevalues

Koto: for new apps, report-only CSP, fix TT violations in frameworks/stacks, enforce TT in test suites, and TT enforcement to baseline requirements for a stack.  TT is vector for enforcing security in apps.  For EXISTING apps, also use report-only CSP.  Found 83% of apps already compliant!  Status: ~25% of high security apps enforce, ~80 sensitve domains under google.com.  No production breakages.  TT migrations drive other XSS reduction efforts; ~ of XSS halved in 2020 and 2021. 0 DOM XSS in all TT applications.  TT organically make code more secure; violations surface sketchy code, and TT's drive engineers toward more secure libraries.  Enforcement now on ~10% of page views, up from 2% over 12 months.  Some upstream patches blocked on multi-browser support.  Devs want to see broader support.  Migrations could be simpler with new features: `fromLiteral` and Sanitizer API.  

Jun (MS): TT enabled by default w/ policy enforcement.  New libraries require TT suport.  Using tsec for complie-time validation; it has an exemption_list.json, which we use to monitor for changes that might bypass TT.  Some MS sites being integrationd into Edge.  Combining strict CSP and TT to validation that integration.  Need more primitives, like fromLiteral and setHTML.  Created Crused Types which can bypass TT .  MS Teams started in Nov 2021, using report-only header.  They want standardized naming for policy names, e.g. package name with policy name, so they don't conflict.  Can CSP EE have a report-only mode? 

Titouan: interesting bugs caught during TT rollout?

Koto: I shared some in twitter (https://twitter.com/kkotowicz/status/1468571755937685506).  the XSSs we caught were in 3p cookie libraries that @@ with a convoluted call chain that our static analyzer couldn't follow.  


###   Meeting timing: 
given the current distribution of attendees, perhaps we could find a different time slot for this conversation?
(please discuss on the mailing list since we're out of time)

Dan: as above.  Current time awkward in Europe and bad in Asia.  Please give feedback on mailing list.  I know no time will be good for everyone.
