## WebAppSec WG minutes for [Tuesday, February 15th: 19:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20211221T1900)


### Attendees

* Sam Weiler (W3C/MIT)
* Krzysztof Kotowicz (Google)
* Jun Kokatsu
* David Dworken (Google)
* Lukas Weichselbaum (Google)
* Abdulrahman Alqabandi
* Mike Taylor (Google)
* Dan Veditz (Mozilla)
* Camille Lamy (Google)
* Titouan Rigoudy (Google)
* Jerry Zhang (Google)
* Wendy Seltzer (W3C)
* Edward Qiu 
* Daniel Vogelheim (Google)
* Frederik Braun (Mozilla)

### Agenda

https://github.com/w3c/webappsec/blob/main/meetings/2022/2022-02-15-agenda.md

*   Update on a wiki for security mitigation deployment tips
    (David Dworken)

*   Proposal for a "Powerful Features Registry"
    https://w3c.github.io/powerful-features-registry/
    (Marcos Caceres, Mike Taylor)

*   Private Network Access: Chromium's deployment experience thus far
    https://wicg.github.io/private-network-access/
    (Titouan Rigoudy)

*   Origin-keyed agent clustering (aka deprecating `document.domain`)
    https://github.com/mikewest/deprecating-document-domain
    (Daniel Vogelheim)

 
### Minutes

#### security mitigation document deployment

David Dworken: we talked about setting up somewhere to store shared knowledge of how to deploy security mitigation features. Currently started with a bunch of Google Docs organized by feature. Currently have Fetch Metadata, COOP, not yet CSP. Where do we present this information now.

...: How should the content be organized? By feature? By use case?

...: Where should these documents live?

...: Currently at: https://drive.google.com/drive/u/2/folders/16UZzTLg8mj91VAibsSCgywgSkD-kYK1x

dveditz: we had a recent experience with a public Google doc getting defaced, so limiting access from those with link to comment (versus edit) might be safer

Jun: Mike said we needed content first, and then could figure everything else out. IMO, as we enforce CSP more and more, how do we extend secure contexts out to include the other features? Need documentation on deployment options. I'd like to help folks first with the features they really want to deploy.

David: There's a lot of content out there suggesting that CSP is helpful. The gap is in actual rollout experience.

Sam: Is there a good recommendation of what to do in what order?

David: Target-rich environment. Lots of mitigations to deploy.

Sam: Should we provide a priority sort? Could be ordered by benefit or learning curve?

David: I don't know whether there is one priority we'd recommend. If your application has tons of XSS, then you should probably focus on that. But if you're not running into XSS very often (react, etc), then it's lower priority?

Jun: From a browser POV, we want to push Strict CSP. Hard to know client-side whether folks are using Fetch Metadata. Client side mitigations. Fits with Mike's suggestion in securer contexts.

dveditz: sounds as though you're suggesting an introduction document

Jun: web.dev has a list of headers and explanations. Those documents are kinda covered.

dveditz: We're collecting a bunch of data, and giving an overview in the place the data lives about why to use CSP, etc. Same Site cookies. Get an overview of things that might solve problems they might not know they have. They can get that information elsewhere, but a collective place we maintain might be helpful.

koto: Feature adoption guide. Extended table of contents?

dveditz: Right, not an in-depth document.

David: Kind of similar to https://web.dev/security-headers/ ? Based on this? Or just link to it? 

koto: Going back to David's use case question: I think there's a place for that kind of content in a wiki. But that feels close to an FAQ about Trusted Types or etc. The main content I see as beneficial is deployment(?) experience.

David: Sure. Keep an eye out for common questions on Stack Overflow, etc. Add those use cases as we go.

mkwst: excited to see this kind of content being produced, it's really useful. Questions we're asking are ones we should work out as we go. Document,s you can produce lots of them. We can have somethign of a mix, both explanation and deployment story. Features can be mixed to describe how to address particular use case. Hyperlinks! Seems reasonable to start with the straightforward thing; describe feature, what attacks it mitigates, how to deploy in application. We can build from there to talk about a plethora of use cases. 
Concretely, where would you like to put this information? Particularly as we go forward to make group work-product. 
Do you imagine a wiki on github, a separately hosted page on W3C site? 

David: No strong opinion. Markdown files on GitHub? Layering on top for nice display, similar to XSLeaks wiki (https://xsleaks.dev/). Custom domain hosted via GitHub pages.

Sam: We could find a home for this under w3.org/Security. Not in TR space.

koto: Do other WGs produce this kind of content? Perhaps already a guide we could follow?

Wendy: I don't think there's a particular pattern among other groups. A11Y groups have a whole subsite with explanatory material. Other groups might have an explainer or two.

Freddy: MDN team was interested in having a security section, might also be interesting.

Sam: That's fine.

dveditz: That content is also hosted on GitHub.

Freddy: Hosting is complicated, but content is all in GitHub, yes. https://github.com/mdn/content has markdown files, which would just work.

mkwst: suggest we do what's literally easiest. if we're starting from Google Docs, let's convert to markdown, put in GitHub, give them a W3C url. Then we can decide whether it should have other aspects. 
Showing progress, providing a place where people can come together to edit. 
If no objection, ask Sam/Wendy if they can create a repository with a name, and hand it to Jun and the folks working on this. 

Sam: use the main webappsec repo? 

mkwst: if w3c/webappsec is the right place, create a directory and give folks commit access
David, please send Sam a list of contributors who should have commit access

Contributors: ddworken, lweichselbaum, shhnjk, arturjanc, jerryzz0, aaronshim

Sam: with github IDs, please.

mkwst: so resolved, we'll use the webappsec repo. I very much appreciate the work. Thanks!

Sam: +1 to appreciating the work, thanks.

#### Proposal for a ["Powerful Features Registry"](https://w3c.github.io/powerful-features-registry/)


miketaylr: Marcos's beauty routine didn't allow him to make it to this meeting at 6 AM. So, I'll talk through https://w3c.github.io/powerful-features-registry/. We're interested in pushing this as a Draft Registry. Motivation is: permissions historically were defined in each parent spec, and algorithms were moved into the permissions document. That lead to confusion and documents being out of sync. We moved ~19 features into their parent specs, and about a third had bugs. We'd like to create a central location in which the registration of a "powerful feature" can live. We can then cross-link from permissions and permissions policy. Maintainers (Marcos and myself) would make sure that the integration was happening correctly, validate algorithms, etc. Nice thing about the registry is that we get error checking when names change (the draft registry throws compilation errors). Questions?

dveditz: This is a more robust version of the HTML document? Hopefully with better maintenance.

miketaylr: Yes.

Sam: Thanks for the work on this! I don't think the W3C has published a registry yet, this is unexercised bit of process. So, you're going to see from someone, probably me, a push to cross Ts and dot Is. It's friendly! But I want to make sure we're not sloppy with this.

miketaylr: We're happy to work through things.

Ian: This is something folks have been asking for for a while in permissions policy. I'm happy to work with you on this!

Sam: Pay attention to the definition of the registry, make sure the criteria for registration match what you need.

Ian: Where is the proposal to host this registry? In a spec, companion document, etc?

Sam: I believe the linked document will be the registry, in TR space, as a working draft.

Ian: is the goal to have a lightweight way to add/modify the registry.

miketaylr: Yes. We have a draft PR defining the process. We're fans of lightweight.

Freddy: I have a mundane question: why do we call this "powerful" when there are things like sync-xhr in there?

miketaylr: Great question. Note in the doc: not all permission tokens are powerful features, like `sync-xhr`. We're not trying to define every token in this doc, just those that (rule of thumb) require the user to do something to enable the feature. Look at "Site Settings" or "Permissions Chip". These are the things we want in this registry.

Freddy: Yeah. Just internal musing at Mozilla that a rename might be reasonable.

miketaylr: File an issue with that feedback! Happy to talk through it.

Freddy: We literally _just_ did, https://github.com/w3c/powerful-features-registry/issues/6

dveditz: You currently reference the permissions policy and permissions API spec. Will other things fit into this registry?

miketaylr: Intention is to keep this narrowly scoped.

Sam: Who registers? I think I heard that a new feature can register itself. 

Sam: What if browsers have a different opinion of the criteria than the spec authors, regarding a particular feature

miketaylr: let's discuss on GH. we want to reflect consensus, what's interoperable, what makes sense. 

dveditz: the spec says where you can file issues, doesn't give links to what's expected. A spec, a draft, a WICG draft?

miketaylr: thanks for the feedback. 

dveditz: doesn't sounds as though anyone objects. Good idea, glad it's being published more formally than as companion doc to Permissions spec. More people will want to be listed, so more explicit criteria, what kind of references are necessary would be good.


#### Private Network Access: Chromium's deployment experience thus far

Titouan: [Private Network Access](https://wicg.github.io/private-network-access/) is a spec, incubated in WICG, that attempts to protect devices on your network from being attacked via CSRF, etc all. Last time we spoke, I was trying to ship the secure context restriction, ensuring that any site that tried to talk to your router would at least be delivered via HTTPS. We thought this would be the easy part! It was not. The intent was to say you had to upgrade your client web app to HTTPS, but MIX says that you can only load securely-delivered content from the intranet. Private servers have trouble with HTTPS. They need a cert with a globally unique name, that's hard. So, what happened? We measured what the impact would be, implemented in Chrome 92, shipped, things broke. So we added a deprecation trial, and disabled the feature for everyone, except for a subset of sites that opted into the trial. We found that, unless things break, folks don't notice.

...: Along with shipping in Chrome 93, we published a blog post, asking folks to try to use TLS, and pointed to Web Transport as a potential path forward. Gives low-level access to HTTP/3. Has a mechanism to bypass the WebPKI, connecting to a server with a self-signed cert by specifying that cert's fingerprint.

...: So, the trial is still ongoing. WebTransport is aiming to ship in Chrome 100, waiting to see whether sites can make use of that to address the IoT problem. It might not be enough.

...: Is this a failure? Not really. Even if it doesn't stick, there was still useful effort towards the second part, which we thought was going to be harder: preflights.

...: PNA started as cors-rfc1918. The RFC specifies private network ranges. The goal was to send preflights to servers hosted in those ranges; if the server explicitly responds with a header allowing the incoming request, great. If not, the request will be blocked.

...: Hard to ask users about this request, but straightforward to ask servers. We implemented preflights in Chrome 98. Plan was to send preflight requests, but not enforce the result. We'll add a message in devtools, but won't block the request. This allows targeted warnings to developers, and give them time to fix their servers.

...: For Chrome, this also meant we could get better metrics about what exactly would break and why, and to identify biggest users.

...: Affects 0.1% of page loads, and it's encouraging that 80% of failures are the server just not setting the right header on a response to the OPTIONS request. That's encouraging!

...: But. Some weird patterns of redirects for development were broken. Other servers wouldn't reponse to OPTIONS requests at all, which lead to very long timeouts. Very fun in sync XHR requests. And we found a crashing bug in our implementation as of 2 hours ago, which means we're likely going to have to try again in Chrome 99.

Sam: Tell me more about the bootstrapping problem.

Titouan: Local device discovery! Hard problem. With web transport, the initiator website needs to know the fingerprint of the endpoint's cert. WT has some restrictions on the certs to ensure safety: for example, a 2 week limit on the certs. This is hard for IoT devices. Perhaps they can phone home, etc. But the IoT space is requring that devices be usable without an internet connection on the first boot. Need to configure WiFi, etc.

[cut for time, apologies!]


#### [Origin-keyed agent clustering](https://github.com/mikewest/deprecating-document-domain) (aka deprecating `document.domain`)

Daniel: This is fundamentally about deprecating `document.domain`. Why? It's been unloved for some time, and you can use it to break the same-origin policy. Spectre requires us to match the origin with the process for safety, `document.domain` breaks this.

...: Second attempt: first was a document policy, we've switched to reusing the existing `origin-agent-cluster` header. We want to change the default such that the default is to origin-key agent clusters. This gives a clear opt-out mechanism that folks can use.

...: High remaining usage of `document.domain`. In Chrome 100, we aim to have a deprecation warning. 6 months later in 106, we'll try to flip the default. In the meantime, we'll reach out to big users, have blog posts, etc. We don't plan to remove the opt-out, but put the onus on the sites using `document.domain` to declare their intent to do so with the header.

Freddy: This is exciting!

Daniel: Hopefully, if Chrome can ship, other vendors can follow quickly. The core change wasn't hard.
 
